%%%
<photomatt> <meetup>
<PotterSys> hello
<photomatt> the agenda is blank for today on the codex, does anyone have a topic they'd like to propose?
<masquerade> photomatt, might as well, I wrote a plugin last night (with a bit of help from Andy) for 2.1 that I know has been discussed as a potential core feature
<masquerade> http://lushlab.com/mirashii/?page_id=17
<masquerade> Autosave for drafts, it'd be nice to get some feedback and with enough, I will submit a patch for core inclusion
<rboren> I'll try it out.
<masquerade> it may have a kink or two yet in it, but it seems to work for the most part
--- mumbles-out is now known as mumbles-out-off
--- mumbles-out-off is now known as mumbles-out
<mumbles-out> |meetup
<error_bot> mumbles-out: 23 hours, 50 minutes, and 45 seconds
<photomatt> sweet, it works with mce?
--- mumbles-out is now known as mumbles
<masquerade> photomatt, yes, :)
<photomatt> that sounds pretty sweet
<photomatt> where does it store things?
<photomatt> maybe just talk about it for a few minutes
<masquerade> in the posts table, it only autosaves if the post or page is a draft
<masquerade> I had intentions at first of having it autosave to another table as you work either way, basically storing a second "Working Copy" of the post (sortof like blicki), but the hassle wasn't much worth it, and after some discussion with Andy
<masquerade> he convinced me that it makes sense to autosave while you're writing or editing a draft, but not so much when you're going back to fix something in a published post or page
<skeltoac> masquerade: I started a new post, hit Save and Continue, then typed a little. It autosaved (cool) but it did an insert instead of update.
<masquerade> hmm, lemme see
<skeltoac> I like the flow. It needs testing and fixing is all :-)
<photomatt> gotcha
<photomatt> sounds good
<masquerade> skeltoac, found the issue, inconsistant variable naming :)
<photomatt> spell check and autosave were two big barriers to making WP a full-fledged writing environment
<photomatt> this is perfect for core
<skeltoac> Word
<bryanveloso> agreed
<rboren> Press
<masquerade> I'm interested mostly in what you all think of UI for core. Should the notification that it saved be more vibrant? Do we keep the custom delay times via an options page somewhere or do we hardcode some values with filters? If the former, what type of delays do we use? :)
<rboren> A per-user pref, if we decide to expose it.
<skeltoac> No options necessary IMO.
<skeltoac> Filters ahoy.
<rboren> Yep, I'd rather just decide on a good interval and stick with it.
<bryanveloso> yeah
<photomatt> ideally it should be completely invisible
<photomatt> until someone's browser crashes or they accidentally close a window
<photomatt> then when they come back, it should let them know we saved the day
<skeltoac> I like the "Last saved at 4:22" message.
<skeltoac> and the draft just shows up with the others
<skeltoac> Superman is a humble guy ;-)
<masquerade> I personally like it too, inspired by Gmail. The precision on it could be changed to not display seconds, depending on whatever interval we decide as final (if its a 1 minute interval, no need to display seconds)
<rboren> Knock the bugs out of the plugin, then create a core patch, and audition it on wp.com to a wide audience.
<masquerade> I've got the bugs mentioned squashed, if anyone finds anything else, lemme know. I'll work on a core patch after the meetup
<photomatt> sweet
<photomatt> I lose posts all the time :)
<photomatt> alrighty, good work masquerade and skeltoac. any other topics folks would like to cover or bring up?
<rboren> I'm a pathological save and continuer.
<photomatt> questions?
<photomatt> rboren: for your 1 post a month? ;)
<rboren> ;-)
<rboren> I did three the other day.
<rboren> It was a heady feeling.
<rboren> How much brisket have you eaten this week? :-)
<masquerade> mmm, I curse wp_die in write_post()
<photomatt> probably 5-6 pounds
<photomatt> alright, probably a good time to call the meeting
%%%



[[IRC Meetups|Back to IRC Meetups]]

[[Category:About WordPress]]
[[Category:Meetings]]
[[Category:WordPress Development]]