'''This the Wiki_Day page used in 2004, the first ever Wiki_Day'''

== Wiki Day Work ==

''Those who expressed intent to participate''

*[[User:alphaoide|Joshua]] (Click my link to see my plan)

*[[User:Carthik|Carthik]]

* [[User:Kafkaesqui|Kaf]] (Striking at what template tags remain.)

*[[User:morganiq|Morgan]]

* [[User:serendipity|Chris]] (more work on the basic structure, making pages compatible, linkification, error correction and basic completion of pages; maybe I get through to writing a page on "How WordPress generates your site" explaining the template structure  and writing more on the loop)

* User Serge K. Keller (My Wiki Day will start only next year... but that's just 10 days away! So see you there, and best wishes to you all)

* [[User:AaronLaw|Aaron Law]] (I'm just an user of WordPress. May I contribute to the community? And where should I start and follow (what should I read on?) to help to WP documentation?)

* [[User:NuclearMoose|NuclearMoose]]

'''''[http://codex.wordpress.org/index.php?title=Wiki_Day&action=edit Add your name here]'''''


''Add freely, please be as specific and clearly as possible so that we don't need to ask for clarification'' <br />
''Put your name next to list item that you want to undertake (multiple name for one item is allowed)''

* '''What everyone can do''': Click on the existing links, or search for pages that contain information on a topic you know something about: Is it incomplete? Incomprehensible? Is something missing? Should it link to other pages? -- If yes, edit the page.

* '''You want to write on a topic but don't know where it goes?''' Just decide in which of the six basic categories on the main page it goes, Click on the "More ..." link and create a link to your page off that page.

* '''Page naming:''' Create page names that are titles (everything uppercase except short preposition and conjunctions); make it short and meaningful; avoid "How to..."; think of what search terms users will type in to find the page: those should appear in the title.

*Does the FAQ need numbering ?

*Use the screenshots ( http://wordpress.org/about/screenshots/ ) here to create image-maps to explain functions ? (Joshua)

*Explain the license in really basic terms ? And maybe also explain why it would be helpful to leave the line marked as such in <head> ? Or not ?

*Template Tags. Move over the missing ones from the old wiki. We need examples of use for many, showing output as a screenshot, or as xhtml. (Joshua)

* Move over other stuff from the old wiki, eg to complete:
** [[The Loop]]
** <strike>Users and User Levels</strike> [[User Levels]]
** stuff from the [http://wiki.wordpress.org/?pagename=HowTo How to page] -- but don't name your page "How to..."!

*CSS. Stay away from CSS. (''I don't understand this'')

*Explain what the word 's_e_a_r_c_h' actually means and how it makes the world a nicer place ?

*How to troubleshoot your problems ? 
#What did you do just before it broke ?
#Have you cleared  cache / cookies ?
#Can you try from another machine ?
# etc etc

*add missing features to Carthik's Feature List and write a brief synopsis for each feature.

* ...

[[Category:About Codex]]