[[Category:New page created]] 

== Description ==
<code>_WP_Dependency</code> is a class defined in {{Trac|wp-includes/class.wp-dependencies.php}} that holds information about an items in a <code>WP_Dependencies</code> queue. This class is internal to <code>WP_Dependencies</code>.

=== Args vs Extra ===
There are two different properties that hold additional information for an item: <var>$args</var> and <var>$extra</var>. The former is a scalar that holds registration data (data provided when the item was added to the dependency queue). For example, <var>$args</var> for <code>[[Class Reference/WP_Styles|WP_Styles]]</code> holds the stylesheet media, whereas for <code>[[Class Reference/WP_Scripts|WP_Scripts]]</code>, it's a dependency group. <var>$extra</var> is an array that holds arbitrary data added via <code>add_data()</code>. For example, it can hold the title of a stylesheet or raw style rules.

== Methods and Properties ==

=== Properties ===
; $handle : item identifier.
; $src : URL associated with item (in practice, items are web resources).
; $deps : handles of other items that this items depends on.
; $ver = FALSE : version for item
; $args = NULL : extra information provided when item was registered.
; $extra : Array of extra data.

=== Methods ===
; bool add_data( $key, $value ) : Adds extra data to an item.

; bool all_deps( $handles, $recursion = false, $group = false ) : Recursively builds an array of items to process while taking dependencies into account.

; bool add( $handle, $src, $deps = array(), $ver = false, $args = null ) : Registers an item if no item of that name already exists

; string get_data( $handle, $key ) : Gets data associated with a registered item
	
; void remove ( $handles ) : Unregister an item or items

== Examples ==


== Change Log ==

Since [[Version 2.6|2.6]].

== Source File ==
<code>_WP_Dependency</code> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/class.wp-dependencies.php}}.

{{Class Footer}}

[[Category:Classes]]