== Introduction ==
The <tt>Walker_Page</tt> class was implemented in [[Version 2.1|WordPress 2.1]] to help create HTML list of pages. It extends the [http://codex.wordpress.org/Class_Reference/Walker Walker] class. You can also extend this class to add your own logic.

== Usage ==

%%% <?php 
$walker_page = new Walker_Page();
$walker_page->walk($pages_array, $max_depth); 
%%%

== Examples ==
This example shows how to print a list of pages and display all levels:

<pre>
<?php
$walker_page = new Walker_Page();
echo '<ul>'.$walker_page->walk(get_pages(), 0).'</ul>'; // 0 means display all levels.
</pre>

The first parameter of method <tt>walk</tt> accepts an array of pages, in this case, we get the array of pages using the method <tt>get_pages</tt>. 

The second parameter is the max depth option. 

*Passing -1 to max depth means flatly display every element. 
*0 means display all levels. 
*Any number greater than 0 specifies the number of display levels. 

Print list of all root pages:
<pre>
<?php
$walker_page = new Walker_Page();
echo '<ul>'.$walker_page->walk(get_pages(), 1).'</ul>';
</pre>

Print list of all root pages including child pages:
<pre>
<?php
$walker_page = new Walker_Page();
echo '<ul>'.$walker_page->walk(get_pages(), 2).'</ul>';
</pre>

Print list of all level but display it flatly. No inner <tt>&lt;ul&gt;</tt> element:
<pre>
<?php
$walker_page = new Walker_Page();
echo '<ul>'.$walker_page->walk(get_pages(), -1).'</ul>';
</pre>

==Change Log==
*Since [[Version_2.1 | Version 2.1.0]]

==Source File==
<tt>Walker_Page</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/class-walker-page.php}}

==Related==
{{Walker Classes}}