==Role of WP_Admin_Bar==
<tt>WP_Admin_Bar</tt> is WordPress' class for generating the [[Toolbar]] that lines the top of WordPress sites when signed in. This class can be hooked and modified to add or remove options that appear in the admin bar.

The Toolbar replaces the [[Glossary#Admin_Bar|Admin Bar]] since WordPress [[Version 3.3]].

==Usage==
This class is used internally by WordPress to create an object called '''<tt>$wp_admin_bar</tt>'''. Most modifications to WordPress toolbar will generally be done by modifying the <tt>$wp_admin_bar</tt> object that is passed through the [[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/admin_bar_menu|admin_bar_menu]] hook.

Example:
<pre>
add_action( 'admin_bar_menu', 'modify_admin_bar' );

function modify_admin_bar( $wp_admin_bar ){
  // do something with $wp_admin_bar;
}
</pre>

== Methods and Properties ==

=== Properties ===

; <tt>$nodes</tt>
: An associative array containing the toolbar items (also called "nodes").

; <tt>$bound</tt>
: 

; <tt>$user</tt>
: 

=== Methods ===

; <tt>__get()</tt>
: 

; <tt>initialize()</tt>
: 

; <tt>[[Function Reference/add_menu|add_menu()]]</tt>
: Add an item into the Admin bar.

; <tt>[[Function Reference/remove_menu|remove_menu()]]</tt>
: Remove an item from the Admin bar.

; <tt>[[Function_Reference/add_node|add_node()]]</tt>
: Add a node to the menu.

; <tt>_set_node()</tt>
: 

; <tt>[[Function_Reference/get_node|get_node()]]</tt>
: Gets a node.

; <tt>_get_node()</tt>
: 

; <tt>[[Function_Reference/get_nodes|get_nodes()]]</tt>
: Gets nodes.

; <tt>_get_nodes()</tt>
: 

; <tt>[[Function_Reference/add_group|add_group()]]</tt>
: Add a group to a menu node.

; <tt>[[Function_Reference/remove_node|remove_node()]]</tt>
: Remove any pre-defined node from the object.

; <tt>_unset_node()</tt>
: 

; <tt>render()</tt>
: 

; <tt>_bind()</tt>
: 

; <tt>_render()</tt>
: 

; <tt>_render_container()</tt>
: 

; <tt>_render_group()</tt>
: 

; <tt>_render_item()</tt>
: 

; <tt>recursive_render()</tt>
: 

; <tt>add_menus()</tt>
:

==Hooks==

* '''<tt>[[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/admin_bar_init|admin_bar_init]]</tt>''' - This action hook is called at the very end of initialization.
* '''<tt>[[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/add_admin_bar_menus|add_admin_bar_menus]]</tt>''' - This action hook is called at the end of the public <tt>add_menus()</tt> method.

Please note that the hooks are available for modifying this class but they have very limited use. In many cases, you will simply want to modify the <tt>$wp_admin_bar</tt> object.

== Source File ==
<tt>WP_Admin_Bar</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/class-wp-admin-bar.php}}.

==Resources==
* [http://generatewp.com/toolbar/ WordPress Toolbar Generator]

==Related==
{{Toolbar Tags}}

{{Class Footer}}

[[Category:Classes]]