This class is used with the Theme Customization API to render an input control on the Theme Customizer in WordPress 3.4 or newer.

==Usage==
<code>
 $wp_customize->add_control(
     new WP_Customize_Control(
         $wp_customize,
         'your_setting_id',
         array(
             'label'          => __( 'Dark or light theme version?', 'theme_name' ),
             'section'        => 'your_section_id',
             'settings'       => 'your_setting_id',
             'type'           => 'radio',
             'choices'        => array(
                 'dark'   => __( 'Dark' ),
                 'light'  => __( 'Light' )
             )
         )
     )
 );
</code>

==Parameters==

{{Parameter|$manager|WP_Customize_Manager|Customizer bootstrap instance. }}
{{Parameter|$id|string|Control ID. }}
{{Parameter|$args|array|An associative array containing arguments for the setting.}}

=== Arguments ===
;settings: All settings tied to the control. If undefined, `$id` will be used.
;setting: The primary setting for the control (if there is one).
;priority: Order priority to load the control. Default 10.
;section: Section the control belongs to. Default empty.
;label:  Label for the control. Default empty.
;description:  Description for the control. Default empty.
;choices: List of choices for 'radio' or 'select' type controls, where values are the keys, and labels are the values. Default empty array.
;input_attrs: List of custom input attributes for control output, where attribute names are the keys and values are the values. Not used for 'checkbox', 'radio', 'select', 'textarea', or 'dropdown-pages' control types. Default empty array.
;type: Control type. Core controls include 'text', 'checkbox', 'textarea', 'radio', 'select', and 'dropdown-pages'. Additional input types such as 'email', 'url', 'number', 'hidden', and 'date' are supported implicitly. Default 'text'.

=== Input Types ===

With this class you can create the following input types:

* text (default)
* checkbox
* radio (requires choices array in $args)
* select (requires choices array in $args)
* dropdown-pages
* textarea (since WordPress 4.0)

Note: Since WordPress 4.0, input types such as 'email', 'url', 'number', 'hidden' and 'date' are supported implicitly as variations of the 'text' input type.



{{Class Footer}}

[[Category:Classes|*]]
[[Category:Advanced Topics]]
[[Category:WordPress Development]]