[[Category:New page created]] 

== Description ==
<code>WP_Dependencies</code> is a class defined in {{Trac|wp-includes/class.wp-dependencies.php}} that helps process items in an order defined by dependencies (a dependent item is processed later than a dependency). It's an abstract class in that it's intended to be extended, rather than used directly. <code>WP_Dependencies</code> is the base for <code>[[Class Reference/WP_Scripts|WP_Scripts]]</code> and <code>[[Class Reference/WP_Styles|WP_Styles]]</code>, and is a collection of <code>[[Class Reference/_WP_Dependency|_WP_Dependency]]</code>s.

=== Stages ===
An item goes through various stages of processing as various methods are called:
<ol>
 <li>registered: <code>add()</code></li>
 <li>enqueued: <code>enqueue()</code></li>
 <li>to_do: <code>all_deps()</code></li>
 <li>done: <code>do_items()</code></li>
</ol>
The <code>query()</code> method can be used to determine whether a given item is in a given stage.

=== Groups ===
Separate processing runs can be identified by different groups (identified by integers). For example, items output in the document &lt;head&gt; might go in one group, while items output in the footer may go in another. An enqueued item that was processed in a group associated with an earlier run is skipped in later runs. The base <code>WP_Dependencies</code> doesn't create groups on its own; child classes must do this.

== Methods and Properties ==

=== Properties ===
; $registered : registered items. An item must be registered before it can be processed.
; $queue : items to process during the next run. Not necessarily in order.
; $to_do : items to process during the next run, in processing order.
; $done : items that have already been processed.
; $args : query string arguments for the items.
; $groups : (internal) records earliest group each item was processed in.
; $group : (internal) current group.

=== Methods ===
; do_item( $handle ) : Process an item. Must be overriden by children. Return TRUE if item was successfully processed.
; do_items( $handles = false, $group = false ) : process items in <var>$handles</var> (defaults to <var>$queue</var>).
; all_deps( $handles, $recursion = false, $group = false ) : Recursively builds array of items to process taking dependencies into account. Does NOT catch infinite loops.
; add( $handle, $src, $deps = array(), $ver = false, $args = null ) : Adds the item only if no item of that name already exists
; add_data( $handle, $key, $value ) : Adds extra data if an item with the given handle has already been added.
; get_data( $handle, $key ) : Gets data associated with a certain handle.
; remove ( $handles ) : Unregister items.
; enqueue ( $handles ) : Add item to the processing queue.
; dequeue ( $handles ) : Remove item from the processing queue.
; query ( $handle, $list = 'registered' ) : Check whether given item is in the given stage (registered, enqueued/queue, to_do, done).
; set_group ( $handle, $recursion, $group ) : set the group for the given handle and (if not recursing) the current run.

== Examples ==


== Change Log ==

Since [[Version 2.6|2.6]].

== Source File ==
<code>WP_Dependencies</code> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/class.wp-dependencies.php}}.

{{Class Footer}}

[[Category:Classes]]