==Description==
<tt>WP_Image_Editor</tt> is a class defined in {{Trac|wp-includes/class-wp-image-editor.php}} that is an abstract class, so it can't be called directly. It is used for implementations like WP_Image_Editor_GD and WP_Image_Editor_Imagick. It has some base functionality that can be used by those implementations.

==Interacting with WP_Image_Editor==


==Usage==

<pre>
$image = wp_get_image_editor( 'cool_image.jpg' ); // Return an implementation that extends WP_Image_Editor

if ( ! is_wp_error( $image ) ) {
    $image->rotate( 90 );
    $image->resize( 300, 300, true );
    $image->save( 'new_image.jpg' );
}
</pre>

==Methods and Properties==

You shouldn't call an implementation directly. Instead, use [[Function_Reference/wp_get_image_editor|wp_get_image_editor()]], which looks at which implementation is the best.

===Methods===

(An ampersand (&) before a method name indicates it [http://www.php.net/manual/en/language.references.return.php returns by reference].)

; <tt>supports_mime_type( $mime_type )</tt>
: Checks to see if editor supports the mime-type specified.

; <tt>save( $destfilename = null, $mime_type = null )</tt>
: Saves current image to file.

; <tt>resize( $max_w, $max_h, $crop = false )</tt>
: Resizes current image.
: Crop value:
 1. If false (default), images will not be cropped.
 2. If an array in the form of array( x_crop_position, y_crop_position ):
  - x_crop_position accepts 'left' 'center', or 'right'.
  - y_crop_position accepts 'top', 'center', or 'bottom'.
: Images will be cropped to the specified dimensions within the defined crop area.
 3. If true, images will be cropped to the specified dimensions using center positions.

; <tt>multi_resize( $sizes );</tt>
: Processes current image and saves to disk multiple sizes from single source.

; <tt>crop( $src_x, $src_y, $src_w, $src_h, $dst_w = null, $dst_h = null, $src_abs = false )</tt>
: Crops Image.

; <tt>rotate( $angle )</tt>
: Rotates current image counter-clockwise by $angle.

; <tt>flip( $horz, $vert )</tt>
: Flips current image on the horizontal or vertical axis.

; <tt>stream( $mime_type = null )</tt>
: Streams current image to browser.

; <tt>get_size()</tt>
: Gets dimensions of image as an array with keys 'width' and 'height'.

; <tt>update_size( $width = null, $height = null )</tt>
: Sets current image size.

; <tt>set_quality( $quality )</tt>
: Sets Image Compression quality on a 1-100% scale as an integer (1-100). Default quality defined in WP_Image_Editor class is 90.

; <tt>get_output_format( $filename = null, $mime_type = null )</tt>
: Returns preferred mime-type and extension based on provided file's extension and mime, or current file's extension and mime. Will default to `$this->default_mime_type` if requested is not supported. Provides corrected filename only if filename is provided.

; <tt>generate_filename( $suffix = null, $dest_path = null, $extension = null )</tt>
: Builds an output filename based on current file, and adding proper suffix.

; <tt>get_suffix()</tt>
: Builds and returns proper suffix for file based on height and width.

; <tt>make_image( $filename, $function, $arguments )</tt>
: Either calls editor's save function or handles file as a stream.

; <tt>get_mime_type( $extension = null )</tt>
: Returns first matched mime-type from extension, as mapped from [http://codex.wordpress.org/Function_Reference/wp_get_mime_types wp_get_mime_types()].

; <tt>get_extension( $mime_type = null )</tt>
: Returns first matched extension from Mime-type, as mapped from [http://codex.wordpress.org/Function_Reference/wp_get_mime_types wp_get_mime_types()].

==Filters==

* '''<tt>[[Plugin_API/Filter_Reference/wp_image_editors|wp_image_editors]]</tt>''' - modify array to re-order or add additional editor/engine classes.
* '''<tt>[[Plugin_API/Filter_Reference/image_editor_default_mime_type|image_editor_default_mime_type]]</tt>''' - string; set default mime-type for `WP_Image_Editor`.

==Source File==

<tt>WP_Image_Editor()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/class-wp-image-editor.php}}.

==Resources==

* [http://make.wordpress.org/core/2012/12/06/wp_image_editor-is-incoming/ WP_Image_Editor is incoming!]
* [http://markoheijnen.com/wordpress-new-image-manipulation/ WordPress new image manipulation]
* [http://bhoover.com/wp_image_editor-wordpress-image-editing-tutorial/ WP_Image_Editor Tutorial]

== Related ==


==Change Log==
* Since [[Version_3.5|3.5.0]]
{{Copyedit}}