{{Languages|
{{en|Class Reference/WP Theme}}
{{ja|クラスリファレンス/WP_Theme}}
}}
[[Category:New page created]] 

== Role of WP_Theme ==
WP_Theme is a class defined in {{Trac|wp-includes/class-wp-theme.php}} that helps developers interact with a theme.

== Methods and Properties ==
This is the formal documentation of <tt>WP_Theme</tt>. You shouldn't alter the properties directly, but instead use the methods to interact with them.

=== Properties ===
; Name : WordPress Theme object.
; ThemeURI : The URI of the theme's webpage.
; Description : The description of the theme
; Author : The theme's author
; AuthorURI : The website of the theme author
; Version : The version of the theme
; Template : (Optional — used in a child theme) The folder name of the parent theme
; Status : If the theme is published
; Tags : Tags used to describe the theme
; TextDomain : The text domain used in the theme for translation purposes
; DomainPath : Path to the theme translation files

=== Methods ===
; errors() : Returns [[Class_Reference/WP_Error|WP_Error]] object with error information. If there isn't any error information then it returns false
; exists() : Boolean for if the theme exists
; parent() : Returns parent WP_Theme object or false if there is no parent theme
; cache_delete() : Clears the cache for the theme

==== Header Methods ====
; get( $header ) : Used to get a sanitized but unformatted theme header. Use the [[Function Reference/get_template|get_template()]] method to find the template, not the 'Template' header. Returns string on success and false on failure
; display ( $header, $markup, $translate ) : Gets the theme header then formats and translates it for display.

==== Path and URL Methods ====
; get_stylesheet() : Returns a string with the directory name of the theme's "stylesheet" files, inside the theme root. If this is a child theme it is the directory from the child theme.
; get_template() : Returns a string with the directory name of the theme's "template" file. If this is a child theme it is the directory from the parent theme.
; get_stylesheet_directory() : Returns a string with the absolute path to a theme's stylesheet files. If the theme is a child theme, the path will be to the child theme files.
; get_template_directory() : Returns a string with the absolute path to a theme's template files. If the theme is a child theme, the path will be to the parent theme files.
; get_stylesheet_directory_uri() : Returns a string with the URL to the theme's stylesheet files. If the theme is a child theme, the URL will be to the child theme files.
; get_template_directory_uri() : Returns a string with the URL to the theme's template files. If the theme is a child theme, the URL will be to the parent theme files.
; get_theme_root() : Returns a string with the path to the directory of the theme root. This is typically the absolute path to the wp-content/themes folder.
; get_theme_root_uri() : Returns a string with the URL to the directory of the theme root. This is typically the absolute URL to the wp-content/themes folder.

==== Files and Images ====
; get_screenshot( $uri ) : Returns the URL to the screenshot image for the theme.  The $uri parameter determines the type of url to return. Passing 'relative' returns a relative URL otherwise it defaults to an absolute URL. 
; get_files( $type, $depth, $search_parent ) : Returns an array of files in the theme's directory.
; get_page_templates() : Returns an array of page templates, keyed by the filename, with the value of the translated header name.

==== Permission Methods ====
; is_allowed() : Boolean value for if a theme is allowed for the network. Always returns true if called on a single site.
; get_allowed( $blog_id ) : Returns an array of theme names that are allowed on the site or network. The $blog_id defaults to current blog. This method calls both get_allowed_on_network() and get_allowed_on_site( $blog_id ).
; get_allowed_on_network () : Returns an array of theme names that are allowed on the network.
; get_allowed_on_site( $blog_id ) : Returns an array of theme names that are allowed on the site.

==== Sorting ====
; sort_by_name( $themes ) : Sorts themes by name

== Examples ==

=== Get Custom Page Templates ===
The following code snippets return all the custom [[Page_Templates|Page Templates]] available to the currently activated theme as an array. Each array item has a key of the Template Name and value of the filename (or folder-name and filename for custom page templates stored in a theme's subdirectory).

<pre>
 <?php 
    $templates = wp_get_theme()->get_page_templates();
    foreach ( $templates as $template_name => $template_filename ) {
        echo "$template_name ($template_filename)&lt;br /&gt;";
    }
 ?>
</pre>

<pre>
<?php print_r( wp_get_theme()->get_page_templates() ); ?>

// Outputs:
Array
(
    [My Custom Page Template] => my-custom-page.php
    [A Second Custom Page] => my-page-templates/my-second-page.php
)</pre>

== Change Log ==

Since : [[Version 3.4|3.4.0]]

== Source File ==
<tt>WP_Theme</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/class-wp-theme.php}}.

{{Class Footer}}

[[Category:Classes]]