==Description==
The <b>"body_class"</b> filter is used to filter the classes that are assigned to the body HTML element on the current page.

A plugin (or theme) can filter these classes with the code:

<code><?php add_filter( 'body_class', 'filter_function_name' ) ?></code>

Where 'filter_function_name' is the function WordPress should call when the classes are being assigned. Note that the filter function  <b>must</b> return the array of classes after it is finished processing, or all of the classes will be cleared and could seriously impact the visual state of a user's site.

'''filter_function_name''' should be unique function name. It cannot match any other function name already declared.

This filter is used by the [[Function Reference/get body class|get_body_class()]] function.

==Examples==

===Classes in WordPress Multisite===

This could be used to provide custom classes for applying different styles to specific sites in Multisite that all use the same theme:
<pre>
// Apply filter
add_filter('body_class', 'multisite_body_classes');

function multisite_body_classes($classes) {
        $id = get_current_blog_id();
        $slug = strtolower(str_replace(' ', '-', trim(get_bloginfo('name'))));
        $classes[] = $slug;
        $classes[] = 'site-id-'.$id;
        return $classes;
}
</pre>

Note that $classes is an array.  This means that you could add new classes to it, or unset unwanted classes.

== Source File ==

<tt>get_body_class()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/post-template.php}}.

==See Also==
* Index: [[Plugin_API/Filter_Reference|List of filters]]
* Tutorial: [[Plugin_API#Create_a_Filter_Function|Creating a Filter Function]]
* Function: [[Function_Reference/add_filter|add_filter()]]

{{Stub}}
[[Category:Filters]]