{{Languages|
{{en|Plugin API/Filter Reference/get the excerpt}}
{{ja|Plugin API/Filter Reference/get the excerpt}}
}}
==Description==
The <b>"get_the_excerpt"</b> filter is used to filter the excerpt of the post after it is retrieved from the database and before it is returned from the get_the_excerpt() function.

==Usage==

When the 'get_the_excerpt' filter is called, it is passed a single argument containing the post excerpt.  

<pre>
function filter_function_name( $excerpt ) {
  # ...
}
add_filter( 'get_the_excerpt', 'filter_function_name' );
</pre>

Where 'filter_function_name' is the function WordPress should call when the excerpt is being retrieved. Note that the filter function <b>must</b> return the excerpt after it is finished processing, or page sections showing an excerpt will be blank, and other plugins also filtering the excerpt may generate errors.

'''filter_function_name''' should be unique function name. It cannot match any other function name already declared.

==Examples==

===Custom "More" Link===
This example from the twentyeleven theme appends a custom "Read more" link to post excerpts. See [http://codex.wordpress.org/Function_Reference/has_excerpt has_excerpt()] and [http://codex.wordpress.org/Function_Reference/is_attachment is_attachment()]

<pre>
/**
 * Adds a pretty "Continue Reading" link to custom post excerpts.
 *
 * To override this link in a child theme, remove the filter and add your own
 * function tied to the get_the_excerpt filter hook.
 */
function twentyeleven_custom_excerpt_more( $output ) {
  if ( has_excerpt() && ! is_attachment() ) {
    $output .= twentyeleven_continue_reading_link();
  }
  return $output;
}
add_filter( 'get_the_excerpt', 'twentyeleven_custom_excerpt_more' );
</pre>

==See Also==
* [[Plugin_API#Create_a_Filter_Function|Creating a Filter Function]]
* [[Function_Reference/add_filter|add_filter()]]

[[Category:New page created]]
[[Category:Filters]]