{{#dotorgredirect: https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/login_redirect/}}


The <tt>login_redirect</tt> filter is used to change the location redirected to after logging in. This could be the location set by the "redirect_to" parameter sent to the login page.

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$redirect_to|string|The redirect destination URL.}}
{{Parameter|$requested_redirect_to|string|The requested redirect destination URL passed as a parameter.|optional}}
{{Parameter|$user|WP_User or WP_Error|WP_User object if login was successful, WP_Error object otherwise.|optional}}

== Examples ==

This example redirects admins to the dashboard and other users to the homepage. Make sure you use add_filter outside of is_admin(), since that function is not available when the filter is called.

<pre>
/**
 * Redirect user after successful login.
 *
 * @param string $redirect_to URL to redirect to.
 * @param string $request URL the user is coming from.
 * @param object $user Logged user's data.
 * @return string
 */

function my_login_redirect( $redirect_to, $request, $user ) {
    //is there a user to check?
    if (isset($user->roles) && is_array($user->roles)) {
        //check for subscribers
        if (in_array('subscriber', $user->roles)) {
            // redirect them to another URL, in this case, the homepage 
            $redirect_to =  home_url();
        }
    }

    return $redirect_to;
}

add_filter( 'login_redirect', 'my_login_redirect', 10, 3 );
</pre>

Redirect all logins to the homepage with an anonymous function (php 5.3+).

<pre>
add_filter( 'login_redirect', function( $url, $query, $user ) {
	return home_url();
}, 10, 3 );
</pre>

== Notes ==

You can register the login_redirect filter to use all 3 parameters like this:
%%%<?php add_filter( 'login_redirect', 'filter_function_name', 10, 3 ); ?>%%%

In the example, 'filter_function_name' is the function WordPress should call during the login process.  Note that '''filter_function_name''' should be unique function name. It cannot match any other function name already declared.

The $current_user global may not be available at the time this filter is run. So you should use the $user global or the $user parameter passed to this filter.

== Changelog ==

Since: [[Version 3.0]]

== Source File ==

<tt>login_redirect</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-login.php}}

== Resources ==

* [http://wpscholar.com/blog/wordpress-user-login-redirect/ WP Scholar - WordPress User Login Redirect ( by role or user meta )]

== Related ==
{{User Link Filters}}