== Description ==

Applied to the list of columns to print on the manage [[Posts Screen|posts screen]] for a custom post type. Filter function argument/return value is an associative array where the element key is the name of the column, and the value is the header text for that column.

In [[Version 3.1|WP 3.1]], <code>manage_edit-{$post_type}_columns</code> has been supplanted by [[Plugin API/Filter Reference/manage_$post_type_posts_columns|manage_{$post_type}_posts_columns]].

See also the action [[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/manage_posts_custom_column|manage_posts_custom_column]], which alters the column information for each post in the edit table.

== Built-in Column Types ==

{{Manage_Posts_Columns}}

== Examples ==

==== Add Columns ====
Suppose you have a 'books' custom post type and you want to add the publisher and book author to the list of columns.

<code><pre>
function book_cpt_columns($columns) {

	$new_columns = array(
		'publisher' => __('Publisher', 'ThemeName'),
		'book_author' => __('Book Author', 'ThemeName'),
	);
    return array_merge($columns, $new_columns);
}
add_filter('manage_books_posts_columns' , 'book_cpt_columns');
</pre></code>

==== Replace Columns ====
Here's another example that with removing and replacing some of the columns.

<code><pre>
function book_cpt_columns($columns) {
	
	unset(
		$columns['author'],
		$columns['comments']
	);
	$new_columns = array(
		'publisher' => __('Publisher', 'ThemeName'),
		'book_author' => __('Book Author', 'ThemeName'),
	);
    return array_merge($columns, $new_columns);
}
add_filter('manage_books_posts_columns' , 'book_cpt_columns');
</pre></code>

Note that unlike an ''array'' data type the ''unset'' PHP function accepts arguments in which the last argument should ''NOT'' end with a comma.

==== Hide Columns ====
Here is an example of how to remove or (hide) columns from Pages / Posts and Custom Post Types without adding any.

You can also add the name of the custom-post type and filter them out in there too… But if you have 5 custom post types you will need five different filters.

<code><pre>

function my_columns_filter( $columns ) {
   unset($columns['author']);
   unset($columns['categories']);
   unset($columns['tags']);
   unset($columns['comments']);
   return $columns;
   }
       
    // Filter pages
    add_filter( 'manage_edit-page_columns', 'my_columns_filter',10, 1 );	

    // Filter Posts
    add_filter( 'manage_edit-post_columns', 'my_columns_filter',10, 1 );

    // Custom Post Type
    add_filter( 'manage_edit-CUSTOMPOSTTYPE_columns', 'my_columns_filter',10, 1 );

</pre></code>

Note: Replace CUSTOMPOSTTYPE with the name of your post type.

== Related ==

{{Manage_Posts_Hooks}}

[[Category:Filters]]