== Description ==
This filter applies to a query's LIMIT clause before the query is sent to the database, allowing you to define a new query LIMIT.

== Usage ==
%%%<?php add_filter( 'post_limits', 'my_post_limits' ); ?>%%%

== Examples ==

<pre>
/**
 * Limit the main query search results to 25.
 *
 * We only want to filter the limit on the front end of the site, so we use
 * is_admin() to check that we aren't on the admin side.
 *
 * We also only want to filter the main query, so we check that this is it
 * with $query->is_main_query().
 *
 * Finally, we only want to change the limit for searches, so we check that
 * this query is a search with $query->is_search().
 *
 * @see http://codex.wordpress.org/Plugin_API/Filter_Reference/post_limits
 * 
 * @param string $limit The 'LIMIT' clause for the query.
 * @param object $query The current query object.
 *
 * @return string The filtered LIMIT.
 */
function wpcodex_filter_main_search_post_limits( $limit, $query ) {

	if ( ! is_admin() && $query->is_main_query() && $query->is_search() ) {
		return 'LIMIT 0, 25';
	}

	return $limit;
}
add_filter( 'post_limits', 'wpcodex_filter_main_search_post_limits', 10, 2 );
</pre>

This will allow your query to return 25 results only for the search page. All other queries will continue to return the default value.

== Notes ==
You can return null to remove the LIMIT clause from the query, allowing you to return all results. However, this will set $wp_query->found_posts to 0.

On some server environments the LIMIT will be applied to all queries on the page.
This results in menu items and widgets also being limited to the defined number.<br>
To only limit the number of posts on a page use [[Plugin API/Action Reference/pre get posts]].

Return to [[Plugin API/Filter Reference]]

[[Category:Filters]]