The "single_template" filter can be used to load a custom template for a given post. It will replace the template used whenever the "single" template is called.

A plugin can register as a content filter with the code:

<pre>
<?php add_filter( 'single_template', 'plugin_function_name' ); ?>
</pre>

Where "plugin_function_name" is the function WordPress should call when the content is being retrieved. Note that the filter function the plugin defines must return a full path to a template file or the resulting page will be blank. The template file should have the same entries as the "single.php" file has in the theme.

This is especially useful for plugins using [[Function_Reference/register_post_type|Custom Post Types]] to load template files specific to your new post type.

== Example with Custom Post Type ==

<pre>
<?php
function get_custom_post_type_template( $single_template ) {
	global $post;

	if ( 'my_post_type' === $post->post_type ) {
		$single_template = dirname( __FILE__ ) . '/post-type-template.php';
	}

	return $single_template;
}
add_filter( 'single_template', 'get_custom_post_type_template' );
?>

</pre>

The example code will load the template file "post-type-template.php" located in your plugins folder for any posts or pages that have the type of 'my_post_type' else uses default template.

== Add single-{post_type}-{slug}.php to Template Hierarchy ==

This example loads the template file single-{post_type}-{slug}.php (i.e. single-event-wordcamp.php) only if the file exists, otherwise loads default template.

<pre>
<?php
function add_posttype_slug_template( $single_template ) {
	$object                            = get_queried_object();
	$single_posttype_postname_template = locate_template( "single-{$object->post_type}-{$object->post_name}.php" );

	if ( file_exists( $single_posttype_postname_template ) ) {
		return $single_posttype_postname_template;
	} else {
		return $single_template;
	}
}
add_filter( 'single_template', 'add_postType_slug_template', 10, 1 );
?>
</pre>

== Related ==
* Action Hook: [[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/template_redirect|template_redirect]]
* Filter Hook: [[Plugin_API/Filter_Reference/template_include|template_include]]
* Filter Hook: [[Plugin_API/Filter_Reference/single_template|single_template]]
* Filter Hook: [[Filter_Reference/type_template|{$type}_template]]

{{Tag Footer}}