{{#dotorgredirect: https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/wp_title/}}

==Description==
The <code>wp_title</code> filter is used to filter the title of the page (called with <code>[[Function_Reference/wp_title|wp_title()]]</code>). This filters the text appearing in the HTML <title> tag (sometimes called the "title tag" or "meta title"), not the post, page, or category title. 

A plugin (or theme) can register as a content filter with the code:

<code><pre><?php add_filter( 'wp_title', 'filter_function_name', 10, 2 ) ?></pre></code>

Where 'filter_function_name' is the function WordPress should call when the content is being retrieved. Note that the filter function  <b>must</b> return the content after it is finished processing, or the title will be blank and other plugins also filtering the content may generate errors.

'''filter_function_name''' should be unique function name. It cannot match any other function name already declared.

== Parameters ==
{{Parameter|$title|string|Title of the page.}}
{{Parameter|$sep|string|How to separate the various items within the page title. Default is '&raquo;'.|optional}}
{{Parameter|$seplocation|string|Direction to display title, 'right'.|optional}}

== Examples ==

=== header.php ===
<pre>
<title><?php wp_title('&#124;', true, 'right'); ?></title>
</pre>

=== functions.php ===
<pre>
/**
 * Creates a nicely formatted and more specific title element text
 * for output in head of document, based on current view.
 *
 * @since Twenty Twelve 1.0
 *
 * @param string $title Default title text for current view.
 * @param string $sep Optional separator.
 * @return string Filtered title.
 */
function twentytwelve_wp_title( $title, $sep ) {
	global $paged, $page;

	if ( is_feed() )
		return $title;

	// Add the site name.
	$title .= get_bloginfo( 'name' );

	// Add the site description for the home/front page.
	$site_description = get_bloginfo( 'description', 'display' );
	if ( $site_description && ( is_home() || is_front_page() ) )
		$title = "$title $sep $site_description";

	// Add a page number if necessary.
	if ( $paged >= 2 || $page >= 2 )
		$title = "$title $sep " . sprintf( __( 'Page %s', 'twentytwelve' ), max( $paged, $page ) );

	return $title;
}
add_filter( 'wp_title', 'twentytwelve_wp_title', 10, 2 );
</pre>

==See Also==
* [[Plugin_API#Create_a_Filter_Function|Creating a Filter Function]]
* [[Function_Reference/add_filter|add_filter()]]
* [[Function_Reference/wp_title|wp_title()]]

[[Category:Filters]]