== Description ==

Retrieve the plural or single form based on the amount.

If the domain is not set in the <tt>$l10n</tt> list, then a comparison will be made and either <tt>$plural</tt> or <tt>$single</tt> parameters returned.

If the domain does exist, then the parameters <tt>$single</tt>, <tt>$plural</tt>, and <tt>$number</tt> will first be passed to the domain's <tt>ngettext()</tt> method. Then it will be passed to the 'ngettext' filter hook along with the same parameters. The expected type will be a string.

== Usage ==

%%%<?php _n( $single, $plural, $number, $domain ) ?>%%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$single|string|The text that will be used if $number is 1 (or if the locale uses the singular form for non-1 numbers)}}
{{Parameter|$plural|string|The text that will be used if $number is plural}}
{{Parameter|$number|int|The number to compare against to use either $single or $plural}}
{{Parameter|$domain|string|Domain to retrieve the translated text|optional|'default'}}

== Return Values ==

; (string) : Either $single or $plural translated text.

== Examples ==
Display either "1 star" or "x stars" for a star rating plugin.
<pre>
$rating = '3';

$text = sprintf( _n( '%s star', '%s stars', $rating, 'your-text-domain' ), $rating );

// "3 stars"
echo $text;
</pre>

'''Important: Never do a calculation inside the <code>sprintf()</code> function!''' The following won't work:
<pre>
$text = sprintf( 
    _n( '%s star', '%s stars', $rating, 'your-text-domain' ), 
    2 <= $rating ? $rating -1 : $rating
);
</pre>

Example from /wp-admin/edit-comments.php without the use of a text domain for translation.
<pre>
if ( $approved > 0 )
    $messages[] = sprintf( _n( '%s comment approved', '%s comments approved', $approved ), $approved );
</pre>

== Notes ==

* Uses the 'ngettext' filter.
* <i>l10n</i> is an abbreviation for <i>localization</i>.

== Change Log ==

* Since: [[Version 2.8|2.8.0]]

== Source File ==

<tt>_n()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/l10n.php}}.

== Related ==
{{L10n}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]
[[Category:New_page_created]]