==$post==
Contains data from the current post in [[The_Loop|The Loop]].
===Properties===
; <tt>ID</tt>
: (''integer'') The post ID.

; <tt>post_author</tt>
: (''integer'') The ID of the post author.

; <tt>post_date</tt>
: (''string'') The post date using the server's current timezone. Format: yyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss Example: 2011-05-19 13:51:21 (default Unix format 'F j, Y')

; <tt>post_date_gmt</tt>
: (''string'') Same as above, but in GMT.

; <tt>post_content</tt>
: (''string'') The post content.

; <tt>post_title</tt>
: (''string'') The post's title.

; <tt>post_excerpt</tt>
: (''string'') The post's excerpt, if one is set.

; <tt>post_status</tt>
: (''string'') See [[Function_Reference/get_post_status#Return_Values|get_post_status]] for possible values.

; <tt>comment_status</tt>
: (''string'') See [[Function_Reference/wp_get_comment_status#Return_Values|wp_get_comment_status]] for possible values.

; <tt>ping_status</tt>
: (''string'') Values: 'open' or 'closed'.

; <tt>post_password</tt>
: (''string'') The post's password.

; <tt>post_name</tt>
: (''string'') The post's slug.

; <tt>to_ping</tt>
: (''string'') Addresses to be [[Glossary#ping|pinged]].

; <tt>pinged</tt>
: (''string'') Addresses already pinged.

; <tt>post_modified</tt>
: (''string'') Date the post was last modified using server's timezone.

; <tt>post_modified_gmt</tt>
: (''string'') Same as above in GMT.

; <tt>post_content_filtered</tt>
:

; <tt>post_parent</tt>
: (''integer'') ID of the post's parent, if it has one.

; <tt>guid</tt>
: (''string'') A link to the post. This is not the permalink. To get the permalink use [[Function_Reference/get_permalink|get_permalink]].

; <tt>menu_order</tt>
: (''integer'') The value set in the 'Order' field for pages.

; <tt>post_type</tt>
: (''string'') The [[Post_Types|post type]].

; <tt>post_mime_type</tt>
: (''string'') Mime Type (for attachments, etc).

; <tt>comment_count</tt>
: (''integer'') The number of approved comments.

; <tt>ancestors</tt>
: (''array'') An array of the post's ancestors' IDs (parent, parent's parent, etc). [0] = parent, [1] = grandparent, etc.

; <tt>filter</tt>
: (''string'')

==Usage==
<pre>
<?php
global $post;
echo $post->post_title;
?>
</pre>

[[Category:Functions]]