{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/add permastruct}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/add permastruct}}
}}

== Description ==

add_permastruct() allows you to specify additional permalink structures for WordPress. It is most commonly used in conjunction with [[Rewrite_API/add_rewrite_tag|add_rewrite_tag()]] and [[Rewrite_API/add_rewrite_rule|add_rewrite_rule()]]

== Usage ==
 add_permastruct($name, $struct, $args);

== Parameters ==
{{Parameter|$name|string|Name for permalink structure.}}
{{Parameter|$struct|string|Permalink structure.}}
{{Parameter|$args|array|Optional configuration for building the rules from the permalink structure, see [[Class_Reference/WP_Rewrite|WP_Rewrite]]::add_permastruct() for full details.|optional|array}}

===Possible Arguments===

; with_front: (''boolean'') Should the structure be prepended with WP_Rewrite::$front? Default is true.

; ep_mask: (''integer'') Endpoint mask defining what endpoints are added to the structure. Default is EP_NONE.

; paged: (''boolean'') Should archive pagination rules be added for the structure? Default is true.

; feed: (''boolean'') Should feed rewrite rules be added for the structure? Default is true.

; forcomments: (''boolean'') Should the feed rules be a query for a comments feed? Default is false.

; walk_dirs: (''boolean'') Should the 'directories' making up the structure be walked over and rewrite rules built for each in turn? Default is true.

; endpoints : (''boolean'') Should endpoints be applied to the generated rewrite rules? Default is true.

== Source File ==
<tt>add_permastruct()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/rewrite.php}}

== Related ==
{{Rewrite API}}

[[Category:Functions]]