{{Languages|
{{en|Function_Reference/add metadata}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/add_metadata}}
}}
This page was moved to https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/add_metadata/ except above language locator.
<!--

== Description ==

Add metadata for the specified object in WordPress.

'''NOTE''': This is a generic, low level function and should '''not''' be used directly by plugins or themes. Instead, use the corresponding meta functions for the object type you're working with:

* [[Function_Reference/add_post_meta|add_post_meta()]] for posts, pages and custom post types
* [[Function_Reference/add_user_meta|add_user_meta()]] for users
* [[Function_Reference/add_comment_meta|add_comment_meta()]] for comments
* [[Function_Reference/add_term_meta|add_term_meta()]] for taxonomy terms

== Usage ==

%%%<?php add_metadata( $meta_type, $object_id, $meta_key, $meta_value, $unique ); ?>%%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$meta_type|string|Type of object the metadata is for (e.g., comment, post, or user). Always singular.}}
{{Parameter|$object_id|integer|The ID of the object metadata is for.}}
{{Parameter|$meta_key|string|A metadata key (as in 'key'&#61;>'value').}}
{{Parameter|$meta_value|string|A metadata value (as in 'key'&#61;>'value').}}
{{Parameter|$unique|boolean|This determines whether the specified key can have multiple entries for the specified object id. If false, <tt>add_metadata()</tt> will add duplicate keys to the object. If true, nothing will be added if the specified key already exists for the specified id.|Optional|False}}

== Return Values ==

{{Return||boolean&#124;integer|Returns <tt>false</tt> on failure. On success, returns the ID of the inserted row. However, note that the return value may instead be the result of the <tt>'add_{$meta_type}_metadata'</tt> filter.}}

== Notes ==

* Uses: <tt>[[Class_Reference/wpdb | $wpdb]]</tt>
* Uses: <tt>[[Function_Reference/apply_filters | apply_filters()]]</tt> - Calls <tt>'add_{$meta_type}_metadata'</tt> with <tt>null</tt> and each of the parameters passed to the function. If the result of this filter call is anything other than <tt>null</tt>, the function will be short-circuited and the result will be returned.
* Uses: <tt>[[Function_Reference/do_action | do_action()]]</tt> - Calls <tt>'added_{$meta_type}_meta'</tt> if the metadata was added successfully with the ID of the new row in the meta table and the first three function parameters.

== Change Log ==

* Since: [[Version 2.9|2.9.0]]

== Source File ==

<tt>add_metadata()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/meta.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Metadata API}}
{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]
-->