== Description ==
This function adds a new group to the [[Glossary#Toolbar|Toolbar]]. Groups allow you to group Toolbar items together into distinct sections of a toolbar menu. 

The Toolbar replaces the [[Glossary#Admin_Bar|Admin Bar]] since WordPress [[Version 3.3]].

Toolbar items are also called "nodes". Nodes can be parents for other nodes, which creates dropdown menus. When adding a group you're actually adding a group node. Group nodes are not visible in the Toolbar, but nodes added to it are.

'''note''': This function is a method of the [[Class_Reference/WP_Admin_Bar|WP_Admin_Bar]] class and <tt>$wp_admin_bar</tt> global object, which may not exist except during the [[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/admin_bar_menu|'admin_bar_menu']] or [[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/wp_before_admin_bar_render|'wp_before_admin_bar_render']] hooks.

== Usage ==
%%%<?php $wp_admin_bar->add_group( $args ); ?>%%%

== Parameters ==
{{Parameter|$args|array|An array of arguments.}}

=== Arguments ===
{{Parameter|id|string|The ID of the group (node).|required|false}}
{{Parameter|parent|string|The ID of the parent node.|optional|false}}
{{Parameter|meta|array|An array of meta data for the group (node).|optional|array()}}

:* 'class' - The class attribute for the unordered list containing the child nodes.

== Examples ==
===Adding a group to a parent node===
This example adds a parent node, child nodes and a group to the toolbar.

<pre>
add_action( 'admin_bar_menu', 'add_nodes_and_groups_to_toolbar', 999 );

function add_nodes_and_groups_to_toolbar( $wp_admin_bar ) {

	// add a parent item
	$args = array(
		'id'    => 'parent_node',
		'title' => 'parent node',
	);
	$wp_admin_bar->add_node( $args );

	// add a child item to our parent item
	$args = array(
		'id'     => 'child_node',
		'title'  => 'child node',
		'parent' => 'parent_node',
	);
	$wp_admin_bar->add_node( $args );

	// add a group node with a class "first-toolbar-group"
	$args = array(
		'id'     => 'first_group',
		'parent' => 'parent_node',
		'meta'   => array( 'class' => 'first-toolbar-group' ),
	);
	$wp_admin_bar->add_group( $args );

	// add an item to our group item
	$args = array(
		'id'     => 'first_grouped_node',
		'title'  => 'first group node',
		'parent' => 'first_group',
	);
	$wp_admin_bar->add_node( $args );

	// add another child item to first group
	$args = array(
		'id'     => 'another_group_child_node2',
		'title'  => 'another group child node2',
		'parent' => 'first_grouped_node',
	);
	$wp_admin_bar->add_node( $args );


}</pre>

The output from this example in the toolbar will be: 

<pre>
 * parent node
 ** child node
 ** another child node
 ** first group node
</pre>

== Change Log ==

== Source File ==
<tt>add_group()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/class-wp-admin-bar.php}}.

== Related ==
{{Toolbar Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]