{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/antispambot}}
{{it|Riferimento funzioni/antispambot}}
{{pt-br|Referência de Função/antispambot}}
}}

== Description ==
Converts selected email addresses characters to [[wikipedia:HTML_entities|HTML entities]] to block spam bots. Not all characters in the email address are converted: the selection is random and changes each time the function is called.

== Usage ==
%%%<?php antispambot( $email_address, $hex_encoding ) ?>%%%

== Parameters ==
{{Parameter|$email_address|string|Email address.}}
{{Parameter|$hex_encoding|integer|0 or 1. Use 0 to only allow decimal encoding (&amp;#123;) and 1 to also allow hex encoding (&amp;x7B;).|optional|0}}

== Return Values ==
; (string) : Converted email address.

== Examples ==
<pre>
/**
 * Hide email from Spam Bots using a shortcode.
 *
 * @param array  $atts    Shortcode attributes. Not used.
 * @param string $content The shortcode content. Should be an email address.
 *
 * @return string The obfuscated email address. 
 */
function wpcodex_hide_email_shortcode( $atts , $content = null ) {
	if ( ! is_email( $content ) ) {
		return;
	}

	$content = antispambot( $content );

	$email_link = sprintf( 'mailto:%s', $content );

	return sprintf( '<a href="%s">%s</a>', esc_url( $email_link, array( 'mailto' ) ), esc_html( $content ) );
}
add_shortcode( 'email', 'wpcodex_hide_email_shortcode' );
</pre>

To use this in your WordPress Content area all you have to do it wrap it in a short code. 

<pre>
[email]john.doe@mysite.com[/email]
</pre>

You can also use this in a plain text widget if you add this filter to your function file as well.

<pre>
add_filter( 'widget_text', 'shortcode_unautop' );
add_filter( 'widget_text', 'do_shortcode' );
</pre>


=== Default Usage ===
<pre>
<?php
echo esc_html( antispambot( 'john.doe@mysite.com' ) );
?>
</pre>
This will output the email like this in the HTML:
<pre>
&amp;#106;&amp;#111;h&amp;#110;&amp;#46;&amp;#100;&amp;#111;&amp;#101;&amp;#64;mysit&amp;#101;.&amp;#99;&amp;#111;&amp;#109;
</pre>
But it will appear as a normal email address to anyone using a web browser: 
<pre>
john.doe@mysite.com
</pre>

== Notes ==

== Change Log ==
Since: 0.71

== Source File ==
<tt>antispambot()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/formatting.php}}.

== Related ==
<!--
    To Do:
    Need to find related functions.
    Need to create groups of functions and create templates to add them to a page quickly.
    Some functions may be related to many groups of functions.
-->

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]
[[Category:New_page_created]]