{{#dotorgredirect: https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/bloginfo/}}

{{Languages|
{{en|Template Tags/bloginfo}}
{{tr|Tema Etiketleri/bloginfo}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/bloginfo}}
{{pt-br|Template Tags/bloginfo}}
{{zh-cn|模板标签/bloginfo}}
{{ru|Теги шаблонов/bloginfo}}
}}

== Description ==

Displays information about your site, mostly gathered from the information you supply in your [[Administration_Panels#Your Profile|User Profile]] and [[Administration_Panels#General Settings|General Settings]] WordPress [[Administration Screens]]. It can be used anywhere within a template file. This always prints a result to the browser.  If you need the values for use in PHP, use [[Function Reference/get_bloginfo|get_bloginfo()]].

== Usage ==

%%% <?php bloginfo( $show ); ?> %%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$show|string|Keyword naming the information you want.|Optional|name}}

:* ''''name'''' - Displays the "Site Title" set in [[Administration_Panels#General|Settings]] > [[Settings_General_SubPanel|General]]. This data is retrieved from the "blogname" record in the [[Database Description#Table:_wp_options|wp_options table]].
:* ''''description'''' - Displays the "Tagline" set in [[Administration_Panels#General|Settings]] > [[Settings_General_SubPanel|General]]. This data is retrieved from the "blogdescription" record in the [[Database Description#Table:_wp_options|wp_options table]].
:* ''''wpurl'''' - Displays the "WordPress address (URL)" set in [[Administration_Panels#General|Settings]] > [[Settings_General_SubPanel|General]]. This data is retrieved from the "siteurl" record in the [[Database Description#Table:_wp_options|wp_options table]]. Consider echoing [[Function_Reference/site_url | site_url()]] instead, especially for multi-site configurations using paths instead of subdomains (it will return the root site not the current sub-site).
:* ''''url'''' - Displays the "Site address (URL)" set in [[Administration_Panels#General|Settings]] > [[Settings_General_SubPanel|General]]. This data is retrieved from the "home" record in the [[Database Description#Table:_wp_options|wp_options table]]. Consider echoing [[Function_Reference/home_url | home_url()]] instead.
:* ''''admin_email'''' - Displays the "E-mail address" set in [[Administration_Panels#General|Settings]] > [[Settings_General_SubPanel|General]]. This data is retrieved from the "admin_email" record in the [[Database Description#Table:_wp_options|wp_options table]].
:* ''''charset'''' - Displays the "Encoding for pages and feeds" set in [[Administration_Panels#Reading|Settings]] > [[Settings_Reading_SubPanel|Reading]]. This data is retrieved from the "blog_charset" record in the [[Database Description#Table:_wp_options|wp_options table]].  '''Note:''' In [[Version 3.5|Version 3.5.0]] and later, character encoding is no longer configurable from the Administration Panel.  Therefore, this parameter always echoes "UTF-8", which is the default encoding of WordPress.
:* ''''version'''' - Displays the WordPress Version you use. This data is retrieved from the <tt>$wp_version</tt> variable set in {{Trac|wp-includes/version.php}}.
:* ''''html_type'''' - Displays the Content-Type of WordPress HTML pages (default: "text/html"). This data is retrieved from the "html_type" record in the [[Database Description#Table:_wp_options|wp_options table]]. Themes and plugins can override the default value using the <tt>[[Plugin_API/Filter_Reference|pre_option_html_type]]</tt> filter.
:* ''''text_direction'''' - Displays the Text Direction of WordPress HTML pages. Consider using [[Function_Reference/is_rtl | is_rtl()]] instead.
:* ''''language'''' - Displays the language of WordPress.
:* ''''stylesheet_url'''' - Displays the primary [[Glossary#CSS|CSS]] (usually ''style.css'') file URL of the active theme. Consider echoing [[Function_Reference/get_stylesheet_uri | get_stylesheet_uri()]] instead.
:* ''''stylesheet_directory'''' - Displays the stylesheet directory URL of the active theme. (Was a local path in earlier WordPress versions.) Consider echoing [[Function_Reference/get_stylesheet_directory_uri | get_stylesheet_directory_uri()]] instead.
:* ''''template_url'''' / ''''template_directory'''' - URL of the active theme's directory ('template_directory' was a local path before [[Version 2.6|2.6]]; see [[Function_Reference/get_theme_root|get_theme_root()]] and [[Function_Reference/get_template|get_template()]] for hackish alternatives.)  Within child themes, both get_bloginfo('template_url') and get_template() will return the <em>parent</em> theme directory. Consider echoing [[Function_Reference/get_template_directory_uri | get_template_directory_uri()]] instead (for the parent template directory) or [[Function_Reference/get_stylesheet_directory_uri | get_stylesheet_directory_uri()]] (for the child template directory).
:* ''''pingback_url'''' - Displays the Pingback XML-RPC file URL (''xmlrpc.php'').
:* ''''atom_url'''' - Displays the Atom feed URL (''/feed/atom'').
:* ''''rdf_url'''' - Displays the RDF/RSS 1.0 feed URL (''/feed/rfd'').
:* ''''rss_url'''' - Displays the RSS 0.92 feed URL (''/feed/rss'').
:* ''''rss2_url'''' - Displays the RSS 2.0 feed URL (''/feed'').
:* ''''comments_atom_url'''' - Displays the comments Atom feed URL (''/comments/feed'').
:* ''''comments_rss2_url'''' - Displays the comments RSS 2.0 feed URL (''/comments/feed'').
:* ''''siteurl'''' - Deprecated since version 2.2. Echo [[Function_Reference/home_url | home_url()]], or use bloginfo('url').
:* ''''home'''' - Deprecated since version 2.2. Echo [[Function_Reference/home_url | home_url()]], or use bloginfo('url').

== Examples ==

=== Show Blog Title ===

Displays your blog's title in a &lt;h1&gt; tag.

 &lt;h1&gt;<?php bloginfo('name'); ?>&lt;/h1&gt;

=== Show Blog Title in Link ===

Displays your blog's title in a link.

 &lt;a href=&#34;&lt;?php bloginfo('url'); ?&gt;&#34; title=&#34;&lt;?php bloginfo('name'); ?&gt;&#34;&gt;&lt;?php bloginfo('name'); ?>&lt;&#47;a&gt;

=== Show Character Set ===

Displays the character set your blog is using (e.g. "utf-8").

'''NOTE:''' In version 3.5 and later, default character encoding is set to UTF-8 and is not configurable from the Administration Screen.

 &lt;p&gt;Character set: <?php bloginfo('charset'); ?> &lt;/p&gt;

===Show Blog Description===

Displays the tagline of your blog as set in [[Administration_Panels#General|Settings]] > [[Settings_General_SubPanel|General]].

 &lt;p&gt;<?php bloginfo('description'); ?> &lt;/p&gt;

=== Example output ===

From version 2.7, in case of host <tt>example.com</tt>, the [[Settings_General_SubPanel|Blog address (URL)]] is shown as <tt>http://www.example.com/home</tt>, and the [[Settings_General_SubPanel|WordPress address (URL)]] is installed on <tt>http://www.example.com/home/wp</tt>.
 
Please note that directory URLs are missing trailing slashes.

<pre>
admin_email          = admin@example.com
atom_url             = http://www.example.com/home/feed/atom
charset              = UTF-8
comments_atom_url    = http://www.example.com/home/comments/feed/atom
comments_rss2_url    = http://www.example.com/home/comments/feed
description          = Just another WordPress blog
home                 = http://www.example.com/home (DEPRECATED! use url option instead)
html_type            = text/html
language             = en-US
name                 = Testpilot
pingback_url         = http://www.example.com/home/wp/xmlrpc.php
rdf_url              = http://www.example.com/home/feed/rdf
rss2_url             = http://www.example.com/home/feed
rss_url              = http://www.example.com/home/feed/rss
siteurl              = http://www.example.com/home (DEPRECATED! use url option instead)
stylesheet_directory = http://www.example.com/home/wp/wp-content/themes/largo
stylesheet_url       = http://www.example.com/home/wp/wp-content/themes/largo/style.css
template_directory   = http://www.example.com/home/wp/wp-content/themes/largo
template_url         = http://www.example.com/home/wp/wp-content/themes/largo
text_direction       = ltr
url                  = http://www.example.com/home
version              = 3.5
wpurl                = http://www.example.com/home/wp
</pre>

== Notes ==

* Uses: [[Function_Reference/get_bloginfo|get_bloginfo()]]

== Change Log ==

* Since: 0.71

== Source File ==

<tt>bloginfo()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/general-template.php}}.

== Related ==
* [[Function_Reference/get_bloginfo|<tt>get_bloginfo()</tt>]]

=== Directory URL Tags ===
{{Directory URL Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]