{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/cat_is_ancestor_of}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/cat_is_ancestor_of}}
}}

== Description ==

This [[Conditional Tags|Conditional Tag]] Check if a category is an ancestor of another category. This is a boolean function, meaning it returns either TRUE or FALSE.

== Usage ==

%%% <?php cat_is_ancestor_of( $cat1, $cat2 ); ?> %%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$cat1|int/object|ID or object to check if this is the parent category.}}
{{Parameter|$cat2|int/object|The child category.}}

== Return Values ==

; <tt>(boolean)</tt> : True if cat1 is an ancestor of cat2, False if not.

== Examples ==

This example, placed in a theme's archive.php, uses [[Conditional Tags]] to show different content depending on the category being displayed.  This is helpful when it is necessary to include something for any child category of a given category, instead of using ''category-slug.php'' method where you'd have to create ''category-slug.php'' files for each and every category.

The code snip below checks to see if the category called 'Music' (ID 4) is being processed, and if so, presents a [[Function Reference/wp_nav_menu|wp_nav_menu]] for the Music archive page, and any subcategories of Music (e.g. jazz, classical.)

<pre>
<?php 
  // if the category is music or a music SUBcategory, 
  if (cat_is_ancestor_of(4, $cat) or is_category(4)):  ?>
  <div id="music_subnav_menu" class="subnav_menu">
    <?php wp_nav_menu( array('menu' => 'Music' )); ?>
  </div>
<?php endif; ?>
</pre>

== Notes ==

* The function evaluates if the second category is a child of the first category.
* Any level of ancestry will return True.
* Arguments should be either integer or objects, If arguments are string representations of integers and not true integers '''cat_is_ancestor_of''' will return False.

== Change Log ==

Since: 2.1.0

== Source File ==

<tt>cat_is_ancestor_of()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/category.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Conditional Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Conditional Tags]]
[[Category:Functions]]