{{Languages|
{{en|Template Tags/category_description}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/category_description}}
{{pt-br|Referência de Função/category description}}
}}

== Description ==

Returns the description of a category defined in the category settings screen for the current category (Posts > Categories).

If used in the archive.php template, place this function within the is_category() conditional statement. Otherwise, this function will stop the processing of the page for monthly and other archive pages.

== Usage ==

%%% <?php echo category_description( $category_id ); ?> %%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$category_id|integer|The ID of the category to return a description.|optional|Description of current query category.}}

== Example ==

===Default Usage===

Displays the description of a category, given its id, by echoing the return value of the tag. If no category given and used on a category page, it returns the description of the current category.

%%% <div><?php echo category_description(3); ?></div> %%%

Result:

WordPress is a favorite blogging tool of mine and I share tips and tricks for using WordPress here.

Note: if there is no category description, the function returns a br tag.

===Using Category Slug===

Displays the description of a category, using a category slug.

%%% <?php echo category_description( get_category_by_slug('category-slug')->term_id ); ?> %%%

===With Category Title===

%%% <div><strong><?php single_cat_title('Currently browsing'); ?>
</strong>: <?php echo category_description(); ?></div> %%%

Result:

'''Currently browsing WordPress:''' WordPress is a favorite blogging tool of mine and I share tips and tricks for using WordPress here.

== Change Log ==

* Since: [[Version 1.0|1.0.0]]

== Notes ==

* Uses: [[Function Reference/term description|term_description()]]

== Source File ==

<tt>category_description()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/category-template.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Category Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]