{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/comment_class}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/comment_class}}
}}

== Description ==
This function displays comment classes, which will help theme authors perform simpler styling. 

See also <tt>[[Template_Tags/post_class|post_class()]]</tt> for more details.

== Usage ==
Default usage:
%%%<?php comment_class(); ?>%%%

With all parameters:
%%%<?php comment_class( $class, $comment_id, $post_id, $echo ) ?>%%%

== Parameters ==
{{Parameter|$class|string/array|One or more classes to add to the class list|optional|Empty string}}
{{Parameter|$comment_id|integer|A comment ID|optional|<tt>null</tt>}}
{{Parameter|$post_id|integer|A post ID|optional|<tt>null</tt>}}
{{Parameter|$echo|boolean| Whether <tt>comment_class</tt> should echo or return|optional|<tt>true</tt>}}

== Returns ==
{{Return||string|The class attribute for the comment. Only returns if <tt>$echo</tt> is set to <tt>false</tt>.}}

== Examples ==

<pre>
<li <?php comment_class(); ?> id="li-comment-<?php comment_ID() ?>"></pre>

The <tt>comment_class()</tt> outputs the <tt>class="whatever"</tt> piece for that <tt>div</tt>. This includes several different classes of value: comment, even (or odd), thread-even, depth-1, etc. These make it easy to style different parts of the theme in different ways.

Specifically, it will apply the following classes, based on the following conditions:
* '''comment_type''': for normal comments, adds class "comment". For all other types, it adds the value of the comment_type as the class
* '''user_id''': if the comment was made by a registered user, then adds class "byuser" and "comment-author-" + the user_nicename sanitized (i.e. spaces removed). Also, if the comment is by the original author of the post, the class "bypostauthor" is added.
* '''Odd/Even''': if the comment number is even, adds class "even". Otherwise, adds class "alt" and "odd".
* '''Comment Depth''': The class "depth=" + the comment depth is always added
* '''Top-level Comments''': If comment depth is top level (1), then adds "thread-even" or "thread-alt" and "thread-odd" depending on whether the comment number is even or odd.
* If the optional class parameter is passed to comment_class(), then that class gets added to all the others. This is useful for defining your own custom comment class.

For special cases where you want to add your own classes, <tt>comment_class</tt> supports that too:
<pre>
<?php comment_class('special'); ?>
</pre>
This will add "special" to the class list. 

== Notes ==
<tt>comment_class()</tt> uses the following [[Global_Variables|global variables]]. So these variables can be set prior to calling <tt>comment_class()</tt> to effect the output:
* <tt>$comment_alt</tt>
* <tt>$comment_depth</tt>
* <tt>$comment_thread_alt</tt>

For example, you can force <tt>$comment_alt = FALSE</tt> if you always want to start with the first comment being even. The <tt>comment_class()</tt> function will then alternate this variable for you.

== Change Log ==
* Since [[Version 2.7| 2.7.0]]

== Source File ==

<tt>comment_class()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/comment-template.php}}.

== Related ==
* [[Template_Tags/post_class|post_class()]]

[[Category:Template_Tags]][[Category:Functions]]

{{Copyedit}}