{{Languages|
{{en|Template Tags/comment_author_email_link}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/comment_author_email_link}}
}}

== Description ==

Displays the comment author's email address, as a mailto link. An email address must be provided if "User must fill out name and email" is enabled under [[Discussion_Options#Before_a_comment_appears:|Discussion Options]]. This tag must be within [[The Loop]], or a comment loop.

'''Note:''' Displaying email addresses is not recommended, as it provides spam collection tools the opportunity to cull them from your site. 

Use [[Template Tags/get_comment_author_email_link|get_comment_author_email_link]] to retrieve the value.

== Usage ==

%%% <?php comment_author_email_link('linktext', 'before', 'after'); ?> %%%

== Examples ==

===Default Usage===

 email: <?php comment_author_email_link(); ?>&lt;br /&gt;

===Link Text and Styling===

Displays comment author's email link as text string '''Email Comment Author''' and adds arrows before  and after the link to style it.

<pre><?php comment_author_email_link('Email Comment Author', ' > ', ' < '); ?></pre>

<div style="border:1px solid blue; width:50%; padding:10px"> > [[#Link_Text_and_Styling|Email Comment Author]] < </div>

== Parameters ==

; linktext : ([[How to Pass Tag Parameters#String|''string'']]) Link text for the email link. Default is the comment author's email address.  
; before : ([[How to Pass Tag Parameters#String|''string'']]) Text to display before the link. There is no default.
; after : ([[How to Pass Tag Parameters#String|''string'']]) Text to display after the link. There is no default.

== Related ==

{{Tag Comments Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]