{{#dotorgredirect: https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/get_template_part/}}

{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/get_template_part}}
{{tr|Fonksiyon Referans/get_template_part}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/get_template_part}}
{{zh-cn|调用模板部分/get_template_part}}
{{pt-br|get_template_part}}
{{ru|Теги шаблонов/get_template_part}}
}}

== Description ==
Load a template part (other than header, sidebar, footer) into a template. Makes it easy for a theme to reuse sections of code and an easy way for [[Child Themes|child themes]] to replace sections of their parent theme.

The template part is located by looking for a file named <tt>{slug}.php</tt> in the theme (or parent theme, if your theme is a child theme).  If the optional <tt>$name</tt> argument is provided then this function will first look for <tt>{slug}-{name}.php</tt>, and if it's not found then <tt>{slug}.php</tt> will be used as a fallback.

If no matching template can be located this function will fail silently, producing neither output nor error messages.

== Usage ==

%%% <?php get_template_part( $slug ); ?> %%%
%%% <?php get_template_part( $slug, $name ); ?> %%%

<code>get_template_part</code> doesn't return a value and doesn't warn if it fails to find a matching template file.

If you want to hear about failures, use:

    <?php assert( "locate_template( array('$slug-$name.php', '$slug.php'), false, false )" ); ?>

== Parameters ==
{{Parameter|$slug|string|The slug name for the generic template.}}
{{Parameter|$name|string|The name of the specialized template.|optional}}

== Examples  ==

=== Using loop.php in child themes ===
Assuming the theme folder is wp-content/themes, that the parent theme is twentyten,  and the child theme is ''twentytenchild'', then the following code --
 <?php get_template_part( 'loop', 'index' ); ?>

will do a [http://www.php.net/manual/en/function.require.php PHP require()] for the first file that exists among these, in this priority:

:#''wp-content/themes/twentytenchild/loop-index.php''
:#''wp-content/themes/twentyten/loop-index.php''
:#''wp-content/themes/twentytenchild/loop.php''
:#''wp-content/themes/twentyten/loop.php''

=== Using with theme subfolders === 

To use this function with subfolders in your theme directory, simply prepend the folder name before the slug. For example, if you have a folder called "partials" in your theme directory and a template part called "content-page.php" in that sub-folder, you would use get_template_part() like this: 
 <?php get_template_part( 'partials/content', 'page' ); ?>

=== Navigation ===
Adding a navigation bar to theme using a generic nav.php template file:

 <?php get_template_part( 'nav' );           // Navigation bar (nav.php) ?>
 <?php get_template_part( 'nav', '2' );      // Navigation bar #2 (nav-2.php) ?>
 <?php get_template_part( 'nav', 'single' ); // Navigation bar to use in single pages (nav-single.php) ?>

== Notes  ==
* Uses: [[Function_Reference/locate_template|locate_template()]]
* Uses: [[Function_Reference/do_action|do_action()]] Calls 'get_template_part_{$slug}' action.

=== Passing Variables to Template ===
Because the template is being <tt>require</tt>d, it will not have access to any variables you define within the calling theme's PHP code, unless you explicitly declare them as <code>global</code>.

However, [[Function_Reference/load_template|load_template()]], which is called indirectly by <tt>get_template_part()</tt> <tt>extract</tt>s all of the [[Class_Reference/WP_Query|WP_Query]] query variables, into the scope of the loaded template. So you can use [[Function_Reference/set_query_var|set_query_var()]] to make your variable available to the template part.

<pre>
// You wish to make $my_var available to the template part at `content-part.php`
set_query_var( 'my_var', $my_var );
get_template_part( 'content', 'part' );
</pre>

== Change Log ==
* Since: [[Version 3.0|3.0]]

== Source File ==
<tt>get_template_part()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/general-template.php}}.

== External Resources ==

* [http://kovshenin.com/2013/get_template_part/ Understanding get_template_part] by Konstantin Kovshenin

== Related ==
{{Include Tags}}
{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]