{{#dotorgredirect:https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/get_option/}}

{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/get option}}
{{es|Referencia de Funciones/get option}}
{{it|Riferimento funzioni/get_option}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/get_option}}
{{ru|Справочник_по_функциям/get option}}
{{vi|Tham Khảo Các Hàm/get option}}
{{zh-cn|get_option}}
}}

== Description ==

A safe way of getting values for a named [[Option_Reference|option]] from the options database table. If the desired option does not exist, or no value is associated with it, <tt>FALSE</tt> will be returned.

== Usage ==

%%% <?php echo get_option( $option, $default ); ?> %%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$option|string|Name of the option to retrieve. Underscores separate words, lowercase only.|required|<tt>None</tt>}}

A concise list of valid options is below, but a more complete one can be found at the [[Option Reference]].

:* <tt>'admin_email'</tt> - E-mail address of blog administrator.
:* <tt>'blogname'</tt> - Weblog title; set in General Options.
:* <tt>'blogdescription'</tt> - Tagline for your blog; set in General Options.
:* <tt>'blog_charset'</tt> - Character encoding for your blog; set in Reading Options.
:* <tt>'date_format'</tt> - Default date format; set in General Options.
:* <tt>'default_category'</tt> - Default post category; set in Writing Options.
:* <tt>'home'</tt> - The blog's home web address; set in General Options.
:* <tt>'siteurl'</tt> - WordPress web address; set in General Options.<br />'''Warning:''' This is not the same as <tt>get_bloginfo('url')</tt> (which will return the homepage url), but as <tt>get_bloginfo('wpurl')</tt>. 
:* <tt>'template'</tt> - The current theme's name; set in Presentation.
:* <tt>'start_of_week'</tt> - Day of week calendar should start on; set in General Options.
:* <tt>'upload_path'</tt> - Default upload location; set in Miscellaneous Options.
:* <tt>'users_can_register'</tt> - Whether users can register; set in General Options.
:* <tt>'posts_per_page'</tt> - Maximum number of posts to show on a page; set in Reading Options.
:* <tt>'posts_per_rss'</tt> - Maximum number of most recent posts to show in the syndication feed; set in Reading Options.

:There are many more options available, a lot of which depend on what plugins you have installed.

{{Parameter|$default|mixed|The default value to return if no value is returned (ie. the option is not in the database).|optional|<tt>false</tt>}}

== Return Values ==
; (mixed) : Current value for the specified option.  If the option does not exist, returns parameter <tt>$default</tt> if specified or boolean <tt>FALSE</tt> by default.

== Examples ==
%%%<?php

$no_exists_value = get_option( 'no_exists_value' );
var_dump( $no_exists_value ); /* outputs false */

$no_exists_value = get_option( 'no_exists_value', 'default_value' );
var_dump( $no_exists_value ); /* outputs 'default_value' */

?>%%%
=== Show Blog Title ===

Displays your blog's title in a <tt>&lt;h1&gt;</tt> tag.
%%% <h1><?php echo get_option( 'blogname' ); ?></h1> %%%
=== Show Character Set ===

Displays the character set your blog is using (ex: UTF-8)
%%% <p>Character set: <?php echo get_option( 'blog_charset' ); ?> </p> %%%
===Retrieve Administrator E-mail===

Retrieve the e-mail of the blog administrator, storing it in a variable.
%%% <?php $admin_email = get_option( 'admin_email' ); ?> %%%

== Notes ==

* Uses: <tt>[[Function_Reference/apply_filters | apply_filters()]]</tt>
** Calls <tt>[[Plugin_API/Filter_Reference/pre_option_(option_name) | 'pre_option_$option']]</tt> before checking the option. Any value other than <tt>false</tt> will "short-circuit" the retrieval of the option and return the returned value. You should not try to override special options, but you will not be prevented from doing so.
** Calls <tt>[[Plugin_API/Filter_Reference/option_(option_name) | 'option_$option']]</tt>, after checking the option, with the option value.
** Calls <tt>[https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/default_option_option/ 'default_option_$option']</tt> to filter <tt>$default</tt> before returning it if it is set and the value doesn't exist.
* Uses: <tt>[[Function_Reference/maybe_unserialize | maybe_unserialize()]]</tt> to unserialize the value before returning it.

== Changelog ==

* Since 1.5.0

== Source File ==

<code>get_option()</code> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/option.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Option Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]