{{Deprecated}}

{{#dotorgredirect: https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/get_archives/}}

{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/get_archives}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/get_archives}}
}}

== Description ==

Displays a list of links to date-based archives. This tag can be used anywhere within a template.

== Replace With ==

* [[Template Tags/wp_get_archives|wp_get_archives()]]

== Usage ==

%%% <?php get_archives( $type, $limit, $format, $before, $after, $show_post_count ); ?> %%%

== Parameters ==

; type : (''string'') The type of archive list to display. Defaults to WordPress setting (defaults to <tt>'monthly'</tt> in 1.5). Valid values:
:* <tt>'monthly'</tt> (Default)
:* <tt>'daily'</tt>
:* <tt>'weekly'</tt>
:* <tt>'postbypost'</tt>
; limit : (''integer'') Number of archives to get.  Use <tt>&#39;&#39;</tt> for no limit.
; format : (''string'') Format for the archive list. Valid values:
:* <tt>'html'</tt> - In HTML list (&lt;li&gt;) tags. This is the default.
:* <tt>'option'</tt> - In select or dropdown option (&lt;option&gt;) tags.
:* <tt>'link'</tt> - Within link (&lt;link&gt;) tags. 
:* <tt>'custom'</tt> - Custom list.
; before : (''string'') Text to place before the link when using <tt>'custom'</tt> or <tt>'html'</tt> for '''format''' option. Defaults to <tt>&#39;&#39;</tt>.
; after : (''string'') Text to place after the link when using <tt>'custom'</tt> or <tt>'html'</tt> for '''format''' option.  Defaults to <tt>&#39;&#39;</tt>.
; show_post_count : (''boolean'') Display number of posts in an archive (<tt>TRUE</tt>) or do not (<tt>FALSE</tt>). For use when '''type''' is set to <tt>'monthly'</tt>. Defaults to <tt>FALSE</tt>.

== Examples ==

=== Default Usage ===

Displays archive links using defaults.

 <?php get_archives(); ?>


=== By Month with Post Count ===

Displays all archives by month in an unordered list, with count of posts by month.
 
 &lt;ul&gt;
 <?php get_archives('monthly', &#39;&#39;, 'html', &#39;&#39;, &#39;&#39;, TRUE); ?>
 &lt;/ul&gt;


=== Displays Last 10 Posts In A List ===

Displays a non-bulleted list of the last 10 posts separated by line breaks.

 <?php get_archives('postbypost', '10', 'custom', &#39;&#39;, '&lt;br /&gt;'); ?>

=== Using Dropdown List ===

Displays monthly archives in a dropdown list; the use of [[Glossary#JavaScript|javascript]] is required to have an archive selection open on the page.

 &lt;form id="archiveform" action=""&gt;
 &lt;select name="archive_chrono" onchange="window.location =
 (document.forms.archiveform.archive_chrono[document.forms.archiveform.archive_chrono.selectedIndex].value);"&gt;
 &lt;option value=&#39;&#39;>Select Month</option>
 <?php get_archives('monthly',&#39;&#39;,'option'); ?>
 &lt;/select&gt;
 &lt;/form&gt;

You also can use piece of code below, that works better than the example above. It shows the months list, including the number of posts/month.

  <select name="archivemenu" onChange="document.location.href=this.options[this.selectedIndex].value;">
  <option value="">Select month</option>
  <?php get_archives('monthly','','option','','','TRUE'); ?>
  </select>

=== List of Limited Number of Recent Posts ===

Displays a custom number of recent posts in an unordered list.

  &lt;ul&gt;<?php get_archives('postbypost','10','custom','&lt;li&gt;','&lt;/li&gt;'); ?>&lt;/ul&gt;

== Change Log ==

* Since: 0.71
* Deprecated: [[Version 2.1|2.1.0]]
* Replace By: [[Template Tags/wp_get_archives|wp_get_archives()]]

== Related ==

{{Lists Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]