== Description ==

This function returns an object that includes the screen’s ID, base, post type, and taxonomy, among other data points

== Usage ==

%%% <?php $screen = get_current_screen(); ?> %%%

== Parameters ==

None

== Usage Restrictions ==

This function is defined on most admin pages, but not all.  Thus there are cases where '''is_admin()''' will return true, but attempting to call '''get_current_screen()''' will result in a fatal error because it is not defined.  One known example is wp-admin/customize.php.

The function returns '''null''' if called from the [[Plugin API/Action Reference/admin_init|<tt>admin_init</tt>]] hook. It should be OK to use in a later hook such as [[Plugin API/Action Reference/current_screen|<tt>current_screen</tt>]].

== Return Value ==

Returns a <tt><b>[[Class_Reference/WP_Screen|WP_Screen]]</b></tt> object, or <tt><b>null</b></tt> if not applicable.

The fields returned are:

; <tt>id</tt> : (''string'') The unique ID of the screen
; <tt>action</tt> : (''string'') Any action associated with the screen. 'add' for *-new.php screens. Empty otherwise.
; <tt>base</tt> : (''string'') The base type of the screen. For example, for a page 'post-new.php' the base is 'post'.
; <tt>parent_base</tt> : (''string'') The base menu parent. This is derived from $parent_file by removing the query string and any .php extension. For example, parent_file values of 'edit.php?post_type=page' and 'edit.php?post_type=post' have a parent_base of 'edit'
; <tt>parent_file</tt> : (''string'') The parent_file for the screen per the admin menu system. Some parent_file values are 'edit.php?post_type=page', 'edit.php', and 'options-general.php'
; <tt>post_type</tt> : (''string'') The post type associated with the screen, if any. For example, the 'edit.php?post_type=page' screen has a post type of 'page'
; <tt>taxonomy</tt> : (''string'') The taxonomy associated with the screen, if any. For example, the 'edit-tags.php?taxonomy=category' screen has a taxonomy of 'category'

<i>Example return value on a post edit page (as of WP version 3.3.1):</i>
<pre>
WP_Screen Object
(
    [action] => 
    [base] => post
    [id] => post
    [is_network] => 
    [is_user] => 
    [parent_base] => edit
    [parent_file] => edit.php
    [post_type] => post
    [taxonomy] => 
    ...
    (private fields)
)
</pre>

== Example ==

=== Default Usage ===

This example shows how you would add contextual help to an admin page you've created with the <tt>add_options_page()</tt> function. Here, we assume that your admin page has a slug of 'my_admin_page' and exists under the Options tab.

The <tt>get_current_screen()</tt> function is used in this example.

<pre>
<?php 
add_action('admin_menu', 'my_admin_add_page');
function my_admin_add_page() {
    global $my_admin_page;
    $my_admin_page = add_options_page(__('My Admin Page', 'map'), __('My Admin Page', 'map'), 'manage_options', 'map', 'my_admin_page');

    // Adds my_help_tab when my_admin_page loads
    add_action('load-'.$my_admin_page, 'my_admin_add_help_tab');
}

function my_admin_add_help_tab () {
    global $my_admin_page;
    $screen = get_current_screen();

    /*
     * Check if current screen is My Admin Page
     * Don't add help tab if it's not
     */
    if ( $screen->id != $my_admin_page )
        return;

    // Add my_help_tab if current screen is My Admin Page
    $screen->add_help_tab( array(
        'id'	=> 'my_help_tab',
        'title'	=> __('My Help Tab'),
        'content'	=> '<p>' . __( 'Descriptive content that will show in My Help Tab-body goes here.' ) . '</p>',
    ) );
}
?>
</pre>

Another Example:

<pre>
<?php

add_action( 'current_screen', 'this_screen' );

function this_screen() {

    $current_screen = get_current_screen();

    if( $current_screen->id === "widgets" ) {

        // Run some code, only on the admin widgets page

    }
    
}

?>
</pre>

== Change Log ==

* Since: [[Version 3.1]]

== Source File ==

<tt>get_current_screen()</tt> since [[Version 3.1]] is located in {{Trac|wp-admin/includes/template.php}}.
Since [[Version 3.3]] is moved to {{Trac|wp-admin/includes/screen.php}}.

== Related ==

=== Topics ===
* [[Plugin_API/Admin_Screen_Reference|Admin Screen ID Reference]]

=== Functions ===

* [[Function Reference/add_options_page|add_options_page]]
* [[Function Reference/add_menu_page|add_menu_page]]
* [[Function Reference/add_submenu_page|add_submenu_page]]
* [[Function Reference/add_theme_page|add_theme_page]]

== Resources ==
* [http://make.wordpress.org/core/2011/12/06/help-and-screen-api-changes-in-3-3/ Help and screen API changes in 3.3] - New Help and Screen usage example. On the official WPDevel blog, by Nacin (core team member) 
* [http://ottopress.com/2011/new-in-wordpress-3-3-more-useful-help-screens/ New in WordPress 3.3: More Useful Help Screens] - Otto (core team member) explains the new Help Screens using his SFC plugin as an example

{{Stub}}
[[Category:Functions]]