== Description ==

Fetch a filtered list of user roles that the current user is allowed to edit.

<code>get_editable_roles()</code> is a simple function whose main purpose is to allow filtering of the list of roles in the global <var>$wp_roles</var> object. Plugins can hook this filter to remove inappropriate roles depending on the situation or user making edits. Specifically because without filtering anyone with the <tt>[[Roles and Capabilities#edit_users|edit_users]]</tt> capability can edit others to be administrators, even if they themselves are only editors or authors. This is mitigated by the fact that normally only administrators have the <tt>edit_users</tt> capability.

Which roles a user can assign are determined by passing all roles through the <code>[[Plugin_API/Filter_Reference/editable_roles|editable_roles]]</code> filter. The filter and function allow administrators to delegate user management.

== Usage ==

%%%<?php $roles = get_editable_roles() ?>%%%

== Return Values ==

;array:Array of role information, indexed by role name. Each entry is itself an array containing the role name and capabilities of the form <code>array('name'=>'...', 'capabilities'=>array('read'=>true, ...))</code>.

== Examples ==

%%%Currently, you can assign the following roles:
<dl>
  <?php foreach (get_editable_roles() as $role_name => $role_info): ?>
    <dt><?php echo $role_name ?></dt>
    <dd>
      <ul>
        <?php foreach ($role_info['capabilities'] as $capability => $_): ?>
          <li><?php echo $capability ?></li>
        <?php endforeach; ?>
      </ul>
    </dd>
  <?php endforeach; ?>
</dl>%%%

== Notes ==

The file that defines this function (wp-admin/includes/user.php) is only loaded in the admin sections.

== Change Log ==

Since [[Version 2.8]]

== Source File ==

<code>get_editable_roles()</code> is defined in {{Trac|wp-admin/includes/user.php}}.

== Related ==
=== Functions ===
* [[Function Reference/wp_dropdown_roles|wp_dropdown_roles()]]

=== Filters ===
* [[Plugin API/Filter Reference/editable_roles|editable_roles]]

[[Category:Functions]]