== Description ==
Gets the current locale. 

If the locale is set, then it will filter the locale in the '<tt>locale</tt>' filter hook and return the value. 

If the locale is not set already, then the WPLANG constant is used if it is defined. Then it is filtered through the '<tt>locale</tt>' filter hook and the value for the locale global set and the locale is returned. 

The process to get the locale should only be done once but the locale will always be filtered using the '<tt>locale</tt>' hook. 

== Usage ==
%%%<?php get_locale() ?>%%%

== Parameters ==
None.

== Return Values ==
; (string) : The locale of the blog or from the '<tt>locale</tt>' hook.

== Examples ==
This sets the monetary locale and if empty, sets as en_US
<pre>setlocale(LC_MONETARY, get_locale());
$my_local_settings = localeconv();
if ($my_local_settings['int_curr_symbol'] == "") setlocale(LC_MONETARY, 'en_US');</pre>

This shows the value of setlocale:
<pre>setlocale(LC_MONETARY, get_locale());
print_r($my_local_settings);</pre>

== Notes ==
* Uses: [[Function_Reference/apply_filters|<tt>apply_filters()</tt>]] Calls '<tt>locale</tt>' hook on locale value.
* Uses: <tt>$locale</tt> Gets the locale stored in the global.
* Uses global: (<tt>unknown</tt>) <tt>$locale</tt>
* <i>l10n</i> is an abbreviation for <i>localization</i>.

== Change Log ==
Since: 1.5.0

== Source File ==
<tt>get_locale()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/l10n.php}}.

== Related ==
{{Localization}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]
[[Category:New_page_created]]