{{Languages|
{{en| Function Reference/get taxonomy labels}}
{{ja| Function Reference/get taxonomy labels}}
}}
== Description ==

Builds an object with all taxonomy labels out of a taxonomy object

Accepted keys of the label array in the taxonomy object:
* '''name''' - General name for the taxonomy, usually plural. The same as and overridden by $tax->label. Default is Tags/Categories
* '''singular_name''' - Name for one object of this taxonomy. Default is Tag/Category.
* '''search_items''' - Default is Search Tags/Search Categories
* '''popular_items''' - This string isn't used on hierarchical taxonomies. Default is Popular Tags
* '''all_items''' - Default is All Tags/All Categories
* '''parent_item''' - This string isn't used on non-hierarchical taxonomies. In hierarchical ones the default is Parent Category
* '''parent_item_colon''' - The same as <code>parent_item</code>, but with colon <code>:</code> in the end
* '''edit_item''' - Default is Edit Tag/Edit Category
* '''view_item''' - Default is View Tag/View Category
* '''update_item''' - Default is Update Tag/Update Category
* '''add_new_item''' - Default is Add New Tag/Add New Category
* '''new_item_name''' - Default is New Tag Name/New Category Name
* '''separate_items_with_commas''' - This string isn't used on hierarchical taxonomies. Default is "Separate tags with commas", used in the meta box.
* '''add_or_remove_items''' - This string isn't used on hierarchical taxonomies. Default is "Add or remove tags", used in the meta box when JavaScript is disabled.
* '''choose_from_most_used''' - This string isn't used on hierarchical taxonomies. Default is "Choose from the most used tags", used in the meta box.
* '''not_found''' - This string isn't used on hierarchical taxonomies. Default is "No tags found", used in the meta box.

Above, the first default value is for non-hierarchical taxonomies (like tags) and the second one is for hierarchical taxonomies (like categories).

== Usage ==

%%%<?php get_taxonomy_labels( $tax_object ); ?>%%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$tax_object |object||required}}

== Return Values ==

{{Return||object|object with all the labels as member variables}}

== Change Log ==

Since: [[Version 3.0|3.0]]