== Description ==
This function returns a [[Glossary#Toolbar|Toolbar]] object with all the properties of a single Toolbar item. Toolbar items are also called "nodes".

The Toolbar replaces the [[Glossary#Admin_Bar|Admin Bar]] since WordPress [[Version 3.3]].   

'''note''': This function is a method of the [[Class_Reference/WP_Admin_Bar|WP_Admin_Bar]] class and <tt>$wp_admin_bar</tt> global object, which may not exist except during the [[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/admin_bar_menu|'admin_bar_menu']] or [[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/wp_before_admin_bar_render|'wp_before_admin_bar_render']] hooks.

== Usage ==
%%%<?php $wp_admin_bar->get_node( $id ); ?>%%%

== Parameters ==
{{Parameter|$id|string|The node ID of the Toolbar item you want to get.}}

==Finding Toolbar Node ID's==

The node ID's can be found in the HTML source code of any WordPress page with a Toolbar on it. Find the list items that have ID's that start with "wp-admin-bar-". For example, the list item ID for the WordPress Logo on the left in the Toolbar is "wp-admin-bar-wp-logo":
<pre><li id="wp-admin-bar-wp-logo" class="menupop"> … </li></pre> 
Remove "wp-admin-bar-" from the list item ID to get the node ID. From this example the node ID is "wp-logo".  

'''Note''': It's also possible to see all node ID's with this [[Function_Reference/get_nodes#Display_all_Node_ID.27s_of_the_Current_Page_in_the_Toolbar|example]] from [[Function_Reference/get_nodes|get_nodes()]].

== Examples ==
===Remove the Toolbar "Updates" Item if it Exists ===
Put this in your theme's [[Functions_File_Explained|functions.php]] file.

<pre>
add_action( 'admin_bar_menu', 'check_updates_node', 999 );

function check_updates_node( $wp_admin_bar ) {

	$updates_node = $wp_admin_bar->get_node( 'updates' );

	// Check if the 'updates' node exists
	if( $updates_node ) {
		$wp_admin_bar->remove_node( 'updates' );
	}
}
</pre>

== Return Values ==
* Object when the node is found.

== Change Log ==

== Source File ==
<tt>get_node()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/class-wp-admin-bar.php}}.

== Related ==
{{Toolbar Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]
{{copyedit}}