{{#dotorgredirect: https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/get_categories/}}

{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/get_categories}}
{{ko|Function Reference/get_categories}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/get_categories}}
}}

== Description ==

Returns an array of category objects matching the query parameters.

Arguments are pretty much the same as [[Template_Tags/wp_list_categories|wp_list_categories]] and can be passed as either array or in query syntax.  <!--The array returned seems to be always flat (no nesting for subcategories) but I'm not sure yet.-->

== Usage ==

%%% <?php $categories = get_categories( $args ); ?> %%%

=== Default Usage ===

<pre><?php 

$args = array(
	'type'                     => 'post',
	'child_of'                 => 0,
	'parent'                   => '',
	'orderby'                  => 'name',
	'order'                    => 'ASC',
	'hide_empty'               => 1,
	'hierarchical'             => 1,
	'exclude'                  => '',
	'include'                  => '',
	'number'                   => '',
	'taxonomy'                 => 'category',
	'pad_counts'               => false 

); 

$categories = get_categories( $args );

?></pre>

== Parameters ==

; '''type''' : (''string'') Type of category to retrieve
:* <tt>post</tt> - default
:* <tt>link</tt>
''<span style="color:red;">Note:</span>'' '''<tt>type=link</tt>''' has been deprecated from WordPress 3.0 onwards. Use '''<tt>taxonomy=link_category</tt>''' instead.

; '''child_of''' : (''integer'') Display all categories that are descendants (i.e. children & grandchildren) of the category identified by its ID. There is no default for this parameter. If the parameter is used, the '''hide_empty''' parameter is set to ''false''.

; '''parent''' : (''integer'') Display only categories that are direct descendants (i.e. children only) of the category identified by its ID. This does NOT work like the 'child_of' parameter. There is no default for this parameter. [In 2.8.4]

; '''orderby''' : (''string'') Sort categories alphabetically or by unique category ID. The default is ''sort by name''. Valid values:
:* <tt>id</tt>
:* <tt>name</tt> - default
:* <tt>slug</tt>
:* <tt>count</tt>
:* <tt>term_group</tt>

; '''order''' : (''string'') Sort order for categories (either ascending or descending). The default is ''ascending''. Valid values:
:* <tt>asc</tt> - default
:* <tt>desc</tt>

; '''hide_empty''' : (''boolean'') Toggles the display of categories with no posts. The default is ''1'' for true or you can add '0' for false (show empty categories). Valid values:
:* <tt>1</tt> - default
:* <tt>0</tt>

; '''hierarchical''' : (''boolean'') When ''true'', the results will include sub-categories that are empty, as long as those sub-categories have sub-categories that are not empty.  The default is ''true''. Valid values:
:* <tt>1 (true)</tt> - default
:* <tt>0 (false)</tt>

; '''exclude''' : (''string'') Excludes one or more categories from the list generated by ''wp_list_categories''. This parameter takes a comma-separated list of categories by unique ID, in ascending order. See [[Template_Tags/wp_list_categories#Include_or_Exclude_Categories|the example]].

; '''include''' : (''string'') Only include certain categories in the list generated by ''wp_list_categories''. This parameter takes a comma-separated list of categories by unique ID, in ascending order. See [[Template_Tags/wp_list_categories#Include_or_Exclude_Categories|the example]].
:* <tt>list</tt> - default.
:* <tt>none</tt>

; '''number''' : (''string'') The number of categories to return

; '''taxonomy''' : (''string or array'') Taxonomy to return.  This parameter added at [[Version 3.0]] Valid values:
:* <tt>category</tt> - default
:* <tt>taxonomy</tt> - or any registered taxonomy

; '''pad_counts''' : (''boolean'') Calculates link or post counts by including items from child categories.  Valid values:
:* <tt>1 (true)</tt> 
:* <tt>0 (false)</tt> - default

== Return values ==
; (array) : Returns an array of category objects matching the query parameters.

The complete content of $category is:
<pre>
$category->term_id
$category->name
$category->slug
$category->term_group
$category->term_taxonomy_id
$category->taxonomy
$category->description
$category->parent
$category->count
$category->cat_ID
$category->category_count
$category->category_description
$category->cat_name
$category->category_nicename
$category->category_parent
</pre>
== Examples ==

=== Dropdown Box as used in Parent category at post category page ===
This is the code used in the build in category page.
Code from 3.0.1
<pre>
wp_dropdown_categories(array('hide_empty' => 0, 'name' => 'category_parent', 'orderby' => 'name', 'selected' => $category->parent, 'hierarchical' => true, 'show_option_none' => __('None')));</pre>

This slightly altered code will grab all categories and display them with indent for a new level (child category). The select box will have a name= and id= called 'select_name'.
This select will not display a default "none" as the original code was used to attach a category as a child to another category (or none).
<pre>
wp_dropdown_categories(array('hide_empty' => 0, 'name' => 'select_name', 'hierarchical' => true));
</pre>

=== Dropdown Box ===

Here's how to create a dropdown box of the subcategories of, say, a category that archives information on past events. This mirrors the example of the dropdown example of [[Template_Tags/wp_get_archives | wp_get_archives]] which shows how to create a dropdown box for monthly archives.

Suppose the category whose subcategories you want to show is category 10, and that its category "nicename" is "archives".

<pre>
<select name="event-dropdown" onchange='document.location.href=this.options[this.selectedIndex].value;'> 
 <option value=""><?php echo esc_attr(__('Select Event')); ?></option> 
 <?php 
  $categories = get_categories('child_of=10'); 
  foreach ($categories as $category) {
  	$option = '<option value="/category/archives/'.$category->category_nicename.'">';
	$option .= $category->cat_name;
	$option .= ' ('.$category->category_count.')';
	$option .= '</option>';
	echo $option;
  }
 ?>
</select>
</pre>

===List Categories and Descriptions===
This example will list in alphabetic order, all categories presented as links to the corresponding category archive.  Each category descripition is listed after the category link.
<pre>
<?php
$args = array(
  'orderby' => 'name',
  'order' => 'ASC'
  );
$categories = get_categories($args);
  foreach($categories as $category) { 
    echo '<p>Category: <a href="' . get_category_link( $category->term_id ) . '" title="' . sprintf( __( "View all posts in %s" ), $category->name ) . '" ' . '>' . $category->name.'</a> </p> ';
    echo '<p> Description:'. $category->description . '</p>';
    echo '<p> Post Count: '. $category->count . '</p>';  } 
?>
</pre>

===Get only top level categories ===
To get the top level categories only, set parent value to zero. This example gets link and name of top level categories.
<pre>
<?php
$args = array(
  'orderby' => 'name',
  'parent' => 0
  );
$categories = get_categories( $args );
foreach ( $categories as $category ) {
	echo '<a href="' . get_category_link( $category->term_id ) . '">' . $category->name . '</a><br/>';
}
?>
</pre>

== Source File ==

<tt>get_categories()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/category.php}}.

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]