{{#dotorgredirect:https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/get_theme_data/}}

{{Deprecated|new_function=wp_get_theme}}

== Description ==

Returns an array of information about a theme file.

This function has been replaced with [[Function Reference/wp_get_theme|wp_get_theme]] in WordPress 3.4
== Usage ==

%%% <?php get_theme_data( $theme_filename ); ?> %%%

Use [[Function Reference/wp_get_theme|wp_get_theme]] instead.

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$theme_filename|string|Path and filename of the theme's <tt>style.css</tt>.}}

== Return values ==
;(array)
: The function returns an array containing the following keyed information:

; 'Name' : (''string'') The Themes name.
; 'Title' : (''string'') Either the Theme's name or a HTML fragment containg the Theme's name linked to the Theme's URI if the Theme's URI is defined.
; 'URI' : (''string'') The Themes URI.
; 'Description' : (''string'') A HTML fragment containg the Themes description after it has passed through [[Function_Reference/wptexturize|wptexturize]].
; 'AuthorURI' : (''string'') The Theme's Author URI.
; 'Template' : (''string'') The name of the parent Theme if one exists.  
; 'Version' : (''string'') The Theme's version number.
; 'Status' : (''string'') the Theme's Status (defaults to 'publish')
; 'Tags' : (''string'') the Theme's Tags
; 'Author' : (''string'') Either the Author's name or a HTML fragment containing the Author's name linked to the Author's URI if the Author's URI is defined.

== Example ==

=== Usage ===

Get the information from the theme's style.css and display the Theme Name and Author.

<pre>
<?php

    /*
     * Assign theme folder name that you want to get information.
     * make sure theme exist in wp-content/themes/ folder.
     */

    $theme_name = 'twentyeleven'; 

    /*
    * Do not use get_stylesheet_uri() as $theme_filename,
    * it will result in PHP fopen error if allow_url_fopen is set to Off in php.ini,
    * which is what most shared hosting does. You can use get_stylesheet_directory()
    * or get_template_directory() though, because they return local paths.
    */

    $theme_data = get_theme_data( get_theme_root() . '/' . $theme_name . '/style.css' );
    echo $theme_data['Title'];
    echo $theme_data['Author'];

?>
</pre>

== Source File ==

<tt>get_theme_data()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/deprecated.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]
[[Category:File Header API]]