{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/get objects in term}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/get objects in term}}
}}

== Description ==
Retrieves the object_id(s) belonging to a term in a taxonomy.
Which Objects have the given term from the given taxonomy.

The strings of <tt>$taxonomies</tt> must exist before this function will continue. On failure of finding a valid taxonomy, it will return an WP_Error class, kind of like Exceptions in PHP 5, except you can't catch them. Even so, you can still test for the WP_Error class and get the error message. 

The <tt>$terms</tt> aren't checked the same as <tt>$taxonomies</tt>, but still need to exist for <tt>$object_ids</tt> to be returned. 

It is possible to change the order that object_ids is returned by either using PHP sort family functions or using the database by using <tt>$args</tt> with either ASC or DESC array. The value should be in the key named '<tt>order</tt>'.

== Usage ==
%%%<?php get_objects_in_term( $term_ids, $taxonomies, $args ) ?>%%%

== Parameters ==
{{Parameter|$term_ids|integer&#124;array|Term id or array of term ids of terms that will be used}}
{{Parameter|$taxonomies|string&#124;array|String of taxonomy name or Array of string values of taxonomy names}}
{{Parameter|$args|array|Change what is returned|optional|array()}}
===Possible Arguments===

; order : (''string'')
:* <tt>ASC</tt> - Default
:* <tt>DESC</tt>

'''NOTE''': Arguments are passed in the format used by [[Function_Reference/wp_parse_args|wp_parse_args()]]. e.g.

== Return Values ==
; (WP_Error&#124;array) : If the taxonomy does not exist, then WP_Error will be returned. On success the array can be empty meaning that there are no <tt>$object_ids</tt> found or it will return an array of the <tt>$object_ids</tt> found.

'''NOTE''': If an object is in more than one of the terms passed to $terms, the results returned will contain duplicate object_ids

== Examples ==
<!-- Need creative examples. Feel free to link to external examples. -->

== Notes ==
* Uses: [[Class Reference/wpdb|<tt>$wpdb</tt>]]
* Uses: [[Function_Reference/wp_parse_args|<tt>wp_parse_args()</tt>]] Creates an array from string <tt>$args</tt>.
* Uses global: (<tt>object</tt>) [[Class Reference/wpdb|<tt>$wpdb</tt>]]

== Change Log ==
Since: 2.3.0

== Source File ==
<tt>get_objects_in_term()</tt> is located in {{Trac|/wp-includes/taxonomy.php}}.

== Related ==
<!--
    To Do:
    Need to find related functions.
    Need to create groups of functions and create templates to add them to a page quickly.
    Some functions may be related to many groups of functions.
-->

{{Term Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]