{{#dotorgredirect: https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/get_template_directory_uri/}}

== Description ==

Retrieve [[Templates|template]] directory URI for the current theme. Checks for SSL.

<b>Note:</b> Does not return a trailing slash following the directory address.

In the event that a [[Child_Themes|child theme]] is being used, the parent theme directory URI will be returned. <tt>get_template_directory_uri()</tt> should be used for resources that are not intended to be included in/over-ridden by a child theme. Use [[Function_Reference/get_stylesheet_directory_uri|<tt> get_stylesheet_directory_uri()</tt>]] to include resources that are intended to be included in/over-ridden by the child theme.

== Usage ==

'''Use the URI'''
%%%<?php get_template_directory_uri(); ?>%%%

'''Output the URI'''
%%%<?php echo get_template_directory_uri(); ?>%%%

== Parameters ==

None.

== Return Values ==

{{Return|uri|string|Template directory URI}}.

== Examples ==
Using get_template_directory_uri() to enqueue a script with the correct path

 <?php
 function my_scripts_method() {
 	wp_enqueue_script(
 		'custom_script',
 		get_template_directory_uri() . '/js/custom_script.js',
 		array('jquery')
 	);
 }
 add_action('wp_enqueue_scripts', 'my_scripts_method');
 ?>

== Notes ==

* Uses: [[Function_Reference/apply_filters|<tt>apply_filters()</tt>]] Calls 'template_directory_uri' filter on template directory URI path and template name.
* Uses: [[Function_Reference/get_template|<tt>get_template()</tt>]]
* Uses: [[Function_Reference/get_theme_root_uri|<tt>get_theme_root_uri()</tt>]]

== Change Log ==

* Since: [[Version 1.5|1.5.0]]

== Source File ==

<tt>get_template_directory_uri()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/theme.php}}.

== Related ==
{{Theme Paths}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]