{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/get_queried_object}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/get_queried_object}}
}}

== Description ==
Retrieve the currently-queried object. For example:

* if you're on a single post, it will return the post object
* if you're on a page, it will return the page object
* if you're on an archive page, it will return the post type object
* if you're on a category archive, it will return the category object
* if you're on an author archive, it will return the author object
* etc.

Note that precedence plays an important role.  As an example, if you visit a custom post type archive while also passing in a taxonomy term (ie. <code>/my-post-type/?my_taxonomy=term</code>), the request is both a post archive <em>and</em> a taxonomy archive.  In this case it isn't obvious that <code>get_queried_object()</code> will return the term object and not the post type object (as of WordPress 4.3).  The implication is that you cannot necessarily rely on <code>get_queried_object()</code> returning a post type simply because [[Function_Reference/is_post_type_archive|<code>is_post_type_archive()</code>]] is true.

Wrapper for [[Class_Reference/WP_Query|<tt>$wp_query</tt>]]->get_queried_object().

== Usage ==
  <?php
  $queried_object = get_queried_object();
  var_dump( $queried_object );
  ?>

== Parameters ==
None.

== Return Values ==
; (object) : 

== Examples ==
<!-- Need creative examples. Feel free to link to external examples. -->

== Notes ==
* Uses: WP_Query::get_queried_object
* Uses global: (<tt>object</tt>) [[Class_Reference/WP_Query|<tt>$wp_query</tt>]]

== Change Log ==
Since: 3.1.0

== Source File ==
<tt>get_queried_object()</tt> is located in {{Trac|/wp-includes/query.php}}.

== Related ==
<!--
    To Do:
    Need to find related functions.
    Need to create groups of functions and create templates to add them to a page quickly.
    Some functions may be related to many groups of functions.
-->

[[Category:Functions]]