{{#dotorgredirect: http://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/get_permalink/}}

{{Languages|
{{en|Template Tags/get_permalink}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/get_permalink}}
}}

== Description ==

Returns the [[Glossary#Permalink|permalink]] to a post or page for use in [[Glossary#PHP|PHP]]. It does NOT display the permalink and can be used outside of [[The Loop]]. On failure, it returns <code>false</code>.

In a Plugin or Theme, it can be used as early as the [[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/setup_theme|setup_theme]] Action.  Any earlier usage, including [[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/plugins_loaded|plugins_loaded]], generates a Fatal Error.

Note that when used outside The Loop on a posts page (index, archive, etc.) without the ID parameter, it will return the URL of the last post in The Loop, ''not'' the permalink for the current page. See: http://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/9963

== Usage ==

%%% <?php $permalink = get_permalink( $id, $leavename ); ?> %%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$id|mixed|The integer ID for a post or page, or a post object|optional|The current post ID, when used in [[The Loop]].}}
{{Parameter|$leavename|bool|Whether to keep the post name or page name. When set to <tt>true</tt>, a structural link will be returned, rather than the actual URI. Example: <tt><nowiki>http://www.example.com/%postname%</nowiki></tt> instead of <tt><nowiki>http://www.example.com/my-post</nowiki></tt>|optional|<tt>false</tt>}}

== Return Values ==
; (string|bool) : The permalink URL, or <tt>false</tt> on failure (if the page doesn't exist).

== Examples ==

 <a href="<?php echo get_permalink( 268 ); ?>">My link to a post or page</a>

=== Default Usage ===

The permalink for current post (used within [[The Loop]]). As the tag does not display the permalink, the example uses the PHP echo command.  

 Permalink for this post:
 <?php echo get_permalink(); ?>

=== Link to Specific Post ===

Returns the permalinks of two specific posts (post IDs 1 and 10) as hypertext links within an informational list. As above, tag uses the PHP echo command to display the permalink.

 &lt;ul&gt;
 &lt;li&gt;MyBlog info:
     &lt;ul&gt;
     &lt;li&gt;&lt;a href="<?php echo esc_url( get_permalink(1) ); ?>"&gt;About MyBlog&lt;/a&gt;&lt;/li&gt;
     &lt;li&gt;&lt;a href="<?php echo esc_url( get_permalink(10) ); ?>"&gt;About the owner&lt;/a&gt;&lt;/li&gt;
     &lt;/ul&gt;
 &lt;/li&gt;
 &lt;/ul&gt;

=== Pass in a post object instead of an ID ===
This shows how you can you can get the permalink with the page title instead of the ID.
<pre><a href="<?php echo esc_url( get_permalink( get_page_by_title( 'Monthly Events' ) ) ); ?>">Monthly Events</a></pre>

== Change Log ==

Since: 1.0.0

== Source File ==

<tt>get_permalink()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/link-template.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Permalink Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]