{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/get_archives_link}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/get_archives_link}}
}}

== Description ==

Retrieve archive link content based on predefined or custom code.

The format can be one of four styles. The 'link' for head element, 'option' for use in the select element, 'html' for use in list (either ol or ul HTML elements). Custom content is also supported using the before and after parameters.

The 'link' format uses the link HTML element with the <em>archives</em> relationship. The before and after parameters are not used. The text parameter is used to describe the link.

The 'option' format uses the option HTML element for use in select element. The value is the url parameter and the before and after parameters are used between the text description.

The 'html' format, which is the default, uses the li HTML element for use in the list HTML elements. The before parameter is before the link and the after parameter is after the closing link.

The custom format uses the before parameter before the link ('a' HTML element) and the after parameter after the closing link tag. If the above three values for the format are not used, then custom format is assumed.

== Usage ==

%%%<?php get_archives_link( $url, $text, $format, $before, $after ); ?>%%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$url|string|URL to archive.|required}}

{{Parameter|$text|string|Archive text description.|required}}

{{Parameter|$format|string|Optional, default is 'html'. Can be 'link', 'option', 'html', or custom.|optional|html}}

{{Parameter|$before|string|Optional.|optional|empty string}}

{{Parameter|$after|string|Optional.|optional|empty string}}

== Return Values ==

{{Return||string|HTML link content for archive.}}

== Notes ==

* Uses: [[Function_Reference/apply_filters|<tt>apply_filters()</tt>]] Calls <code>'get_archives_link'</code> hook on HTML link content.

== Change Log ==

Since: [[Version 1.0|1.0]]

== Source File ==

<tt>get_archives_link()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/general-template.php}}

== Related ==

* [[Function Reference/wp_get_archives|wp_get_archives()]]
* [[Function Reference/get_post_type_archive_link|get_post_type_archive_link()]]

{{DEFAULTSORT:Get_archives_link}}
[[Category:Functions]]

[[Category:New_page_created]]