{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/get_the_tag_list}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/get_the_tag_list}}
}}

== Description ==

Generates a HTML string of the tags associated with the current post. The name of each tag will be linked to the relevant 'tag' page. You can tell the function to put a string before and after all the tags, and in between each tag. Differently from <code>get_the_category_list</code>, this tag must be used inside [[The Loop]].

== Usage ==

%%% <?php $tag_list = get_the_tag_list( $before, $sep, $after, $id ); ?> %%%

This function does not display anything - if you want to put it straight onto the page, you should use <code>echo get_the_tag_list();</code>. Alternatively, you can assign it to a variable for further use by using <code>$foo = get_the_tag_list();</code>.

The variables are all optional. You can use HTML inside each of the fields.

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$before|string|Leading text.|optional|' '}}
{{Parameter|$sep|string|String to separate tags.|optional|' '}}
{{Parameter|$after|string|Trailing text.|optional|' '}}
{{Parameter|$id|integer|Post ID.|optional|Current post ID}}

== Example ==

=== A Basic Example ===

This outputs the list of tags inside a paragraph, with tags separated by commas.
<pre>
<?php
echo get_the_tag_list('<p>Tags: ',', ','</p>');
?>
</pre>

This would return something like:
<pre>
<p>Tags: 
<a href="tag1">Tag 1</a>,
<a href="tag2">Tag 2</a>,
...
</p>
</pre>

=== A Slightly More Complex Example ===

This checks if the post has any tags, and if there are, outputs them to a standard unordered list.
<pre>
<?php
if(get_the_tag_list()) {
    echo get_the_tag_list('<ul><li>','</li><li>','</li></ul>');
}
?>
</pre>

This will return something in the form:
<pre>
<ul>
<li><a href="tag1">Tag 1</a></li>
<li><a href="tag2">Tag 2</a></li>
 ... 
</ul>
</pre>

You can add classes and styles with CSS, as necessary.

== Change Log ==

* Since: [[Version 2.3|2.3.0]]

== Source File ==

<tt>get_the_tag_list()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/category-template.php}}.

== Related ==
{{Tag Tags}}, [[Function_Reference/get_the_term_list|get_the_term_list()]]

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]