{{Deprecated}}

{{#dotorgredirect: https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/get_settings/}}
== Description ==

* '''NB:''' instead of get_settings, use [[Function_Reference/get_option|get_option($optionname)]]

A safe way of getting values for a named option from the options database table.

=== Note ===

For a complete list of all options available through this function, go to

<nowiki> http://www.yoursite.com/wp-admin/options.php </nowiki>

'''Also:''' You can modify any/all of the options from the same page.

=== Aliases ===

%%% get_option($optionname) %%%
This is a wrapper around the get_settings function, added for readability and a more humane interface.

== Usage ==

%%% <?php echo get_settings('show'); ?> %%%
or
%%% <?php echo get_option('show'); ?> %%%

== Examples ==

=== Show Blog Title ===

Displays your blog's title in a &lt;h1&gt; tag.

%%% <h1><?php echo get_settings('blogname'); ?></h1> %%%
or
%%% <h1><?php echo get_option('blogname'); ?></h1> %%%

=== Show Character Set ===

Displays the character set your blog is using (ex: UTF-8)
%%% <p>Character set: <?php echo get_settings('blog_charset'); ?> </p> %%%
or
%%% <p>Character set: <?php echo get_option('blog_charset'); ?> </p> %%%

===Retrieve Administrator E-mail===

== Parameters ==

; show : (''string'') Name of the option. Underscores separate words, lowercase only - this is going to be in a database. Valid values:
:* <tt>'admin_email'</tt> - E-mail address of blog administrator.
:* <tt>'blogname'</tt> - Weblog title; set in General Options.
:* <tt>'blogdescription'</tt> - Tagline for your blog; set in General Options.
:* <tt>'blog_charset'</tt> - Character encoding for your blog; set in Reading Options.
:* <tt>'date_format'</tt> - Default date format; set in General Options.
:* <tt>'default_category'</tt> - Default post category; set in Writing Options.
:* <tt>'home'</tt> - The blog's home web address; set in General Options.
:* <tt>'siteurl'</tt> - WordPress web address; set in General Options.<br />'''Warning:''' This is not the same as get_bloginfo('siteurl'); which will return the homepage url. Use get_bloginfo('wpurl'), get_settings() has been deprecated.
:* <tt>'template'</tt> - The current theme's name; set in Presentation.
:* <tt>'start_of_week'</tt> - Day of week calendar should start on; set in General Options.
:* <tt>'upload_path'</tt> - Default upload location; set in Miscellaneous Options.
:* <tt>'posts_per_page'</tt> - Maximum number of posts to show on a page; set in Reading Options.
:* <tt>'posts_per_rss'</tt> - Maximum number of most recent posts to show in the syndication feed; set in Reading Options.
:There are many more options available, a lot of which depend on what plugins you have installed. Visit the /wp-admin/options.php page for a complete list.

== Related ==

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]