{{Languages|
{{en|Function_Reference/get_category}}
{{ko|Function_Reference/get_category}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/get_category}}
}}

== Description ==
Retrieves category data given a category ID or category object. 

If you pass the <tt>$category</tt> parameter an object, which is assumed to be the category row object retrieved the database. It will cache the category data.

If you pass <tt>$category</tt> an integer of the category ID, then that category will be retrieved from the database, if it isn't already cached, and pass it back.

If you look at [[Function_Reference/get_term|<tt>get_term()</tt>]], then both types will be passed through several filters and finally sanitized based on the <tt>$filter</tt> parameter value.

The category will converted to maintain backwards compatibility.

<b>Note</b>: use [[Function_Reference/get_term|<tt>get_term()</tt>]] to get Link Categories based on their ID's.  <tt>get_category</tt> only returns Post Categories.

== Usage ==
%%%<?php get_category( $category, $output, $filter ) ?>%%%

== Parameters ==
{{Parameter|$category|integer&#124;object|Category ID or Category row object}}
{{Parameter|$output|string|Constant OBJECT, ARRAY_A, or ARRAY_N|optional|OBJECT}}
{{Parameter|$filter|string|Default is raw or no WordPress defined filter will applied.|optional|'raw'}}

== Return Values ==
; (mixed) : Category data in type defined by <tt>$output</tt> parameter. Returns <code>null</code> if <tt>$category</tt> does not exist.

== Examples ==

=== Sample get_category() code ===
%%%<?php $thisCat = get_category(get_query_var('cat')); ?>%%%

The variable ''$thisCat'' is now:

<pre>stdClass Object
(
    [term_id] => 85
    [name] => Category Name
    [slug] => category-name
    [term_group] => 0
    [term_taxonomy_id] => 85
    [taxonomy] => category
    [description] => 
    [parent] => 70
    [count] => 0
    [cat_ID] => 85
    [category_count] => 0
    [category_description] => 
    [cat_name] => Category Name
    [category_nicename] => category-name
    [category_parent] => 70
)</pre>

== Notes ==
* Uses: [[Function_Reference/get_term|<tt>get_term()</tt>]] Used to get the category data from the taxonomy.
* The <code>count</code> attribute includes custom post types as well if the custom post type uses standard categories.

== Change Log ==
* Since: [[Version 1.5.1|1.5.1]]

== Source File ==
<tt>get_category()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/category.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]
[[Category:New_page_created]]