{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/get_bloginfo_rss}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/get_bloginfo_rss}}
{{ru|Теги шаблонов/get_bloginfo_rss}}
}}

== Description ==

[[wikipedia:Rss|RSS]] container for the bloginfo function. 

You can retrieve anything that you can using the [[Function Reference/get_bloginfo|<tt>get_bloginfo()</tt>]] function. Everything will be stripped of tags and characters converted, when the values are retrieved for use in the feeds. 

== Usage ==

%%%<?php get_bloginfo_rss( $show ) ?>%%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$show|string|Informational detail about your blog. Valid values:|optional|&#39;&#39;}}

:* <tt>'name'</tt> - Weblog title; set in General Options. (Default)
:* <tt>'description'</tt> - Tagline for your blog; set in General Options.
:* <tt>'url'</tt> - [[Glossary#URI and URL|URL]] for your blog's web site address.
:* <tt>'rdf_url'</tt> - URL for [[Glossary#RDF|RDF]]/RSS 1.0 feed.
:* <tt>'rss_url'</tt> - URL for [[Glossary#RSS|RSS]] 0.92 feed.
:* <tt>'rss2_url'</tt> - URL for RSS 2.0 feed.
:* <tt>'atom_url'</tt> - URL for [[Glossary#Atom|Atom]] feed.
:* <tt>'comments_rss2_url'</tt> - URL for comments RSS 2.0 feed.
:* <tt>'pingback_url'</tt> - URL for [[Glossary#PingBack|Pingback]] (XML-RPC file).
:* <tt>'admin_email'</tt> - Administrator's email address; set in General Options.
:* <tt>'charset'</tt> - Character encoding for your blog; set in Reading Options.
:* <tt>'version'</tt> - Version of WordPress your blog uses.
: '''The following work in WordPress version 1.5 or after:'''
:* <tt>'html_type'</tt> - "Content-type" for your blog.
:* <tt>'wpurl'</tt> - URL for WordPress installation.
:* <tt>'template_url'</tt> - URL for template in use.
:* <tt>'template_directory'</tt> - URL for template's directory.
:* <tt>'stylesheet_url'</tt> - URL for primary [[Glossary#CSS|CSS]] file.
:* <tt>'stylesheet_directory'</tt> - URL for stylesheet directory.

== Return Values ==

; (string) : 

== Examples ==

=== RSS2 URL ===

Assigns the URL of your blog's RSS2 feed to the variable $rss2_url.

 <?php $rss2_url = get_bloginfo_rss('rss2_url'); ?>

== Notes ==

* Uses: [[Function_Reference/apply_filters|<tt>apply_filters()</tt>]] Calls '<tt>get_bloginfo_rss</tt>' hook with two parameters.

== Change Log ==

Since: 1.5.1

== Source File ==

<tt>get_bloginfo_rss()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/feed.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]