{{#dotorgredirect: https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/get_sidebar/}}

{{Languages|
{{en|get_sidebar}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/get_sidebar}}
{{ru|Теги шаблонов/get_sidebar}}
{{zh-cn|get_sidebar 获得边栏}}
}}

==Description==
[[Include Tags|Includes]] the <tt>sidebar.php</tt> template file from your current theme's directory. 

If a name ($name) is specified then a specialized sidebar <tt>sidebar-{name}.php</tt> will be included. If <tt>sidebar-{name}.php</tt> does not exist, then it will fallback to loading <tt>sidebar.php</tt>.

If the theme contains no <tt>sidebar.php</tt> file then the sidebar from the default theme <code>wp-includes/theme-compat/sidebar.php</code> will be included.

==Usage==
%%%<?php get_sidebar( $name ); ?>%%%

==Parameters==
{{Parameter|$name|string|Calls for <tt>sidebar-name.php</tt>.|optional}}

==Examples==
===Simple call===
Assume you have file <tt>wp-content/yourTheme/sidebar-nice-bar.php</tt>. The way you can include this sidebar in your page is:
<pre>
<?php get_sidebar('nice-bar'); ?>
</pre>

===Simple 404 page===
The following code is a simple example of a template for an "HTTP 404: Not Found" error (which you could include in your [[Theme Development|Theme]] as <tt>404.php</tt>).

<pre>
<?php get_header(); ?>
<h2>Error 404 - Not Found</h2>
<?php get_sidebar(); ?>
<?php get_footer(); ?>
</pre>

===Left and Right Sidebars===
Two sidebars in one theme.

<pre>
<?php get_header(); ?>
<?php get_sidebar( 'left' ); ?>
<?php get_sidebar( 'right' ); ?>
<?php get_footer(); ?>
</pre>

The file names for the right and left sidebars should be <tt>sidebar-right.php</tt> and <tt>sidebar-left.php</tt> respectively.

===Multi sidebars===
Different sidebar for different pages.

<pre>
<?php
if ( is_home() ) :
  get_sidebar( 'home' );
elseif ( is_404() ) :
  get_sidebar( '404' );
else :
  get_sidebar();
endif;
?>
</pre>

The file names for the home and 404 sidebars should be <tt>sidebar-home.php</tt> and <tt>sidebar-404.php</tt> respectively.

==Notes==

* Uses: [[Function_Reference/locate_template|locate_template()]]
* Uses: [[Function_Reference/do_action|do_action()]] Calls 'get_sidebar' action.

==Change Log==
* Since: [[Version 1.5|1.5.0]]
* [[Version 2.5|2.5.0]] : Added the '<code>name</code>' parameters.

==Source File==
<tt>get_sidebar()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/general-template.php}}.

==Related==
{{Include Tags}}

{{Widget Tags}}

* [[Function Reference/body_class#Add_Sidebar_Classes|Adding Sidebar Classes included with get_sidebar to body_class]]

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]