== Description ==
Retrieve localized stylesheet URI.

The [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cascading_Style_Sheets stylesheet] directory for the localized stylesheet files are located, by default, in the base [[Glossary#Theme|theme]] directory. The name of the locale file will be the locale followed by <tt>'.css'</tt>. If that does not exist, then the text direction stylesheet will be checked for existence, for example <tt>'ltr.css'</tt>. 

The theme may change the location of the stylesheet directory by either using the <tt>'stylesheet_directory_uri'</tt> filter or the <tt>'locale_stylesheet_uri'</tt> filter. If you want to change the location of the stylesheet files for the entire WordPress workflow, then change the former. If you just have the locale in a separate folder, then change the latter.

== Usage ==
%%%<?php get_locale_stylesheet_uri() ?>%%%

== Parameters ==
None.

== Return Values ==
; (string) : Returns localized stylesheet URI.

== Examples ==
<!-- Need creative examples. Feel free to link to external examples. -->

== Notes ==
* Uses global: (<tt>object</tt>) <tt>$wp_locale</tt> handles the date and time locales.
* Uses: [[Function_Reference/apply_filters|<tt>apply_filters()</tt>]] Calls <tt>'locale_stylesheet_uri'</tt> filter on stylesheet URI path and stylesheet directory URI.
* Uses: [[Function_Reference/get_stylesheet_directory_uri|<tt>get_stylesheet_directory_uri()</tt>]]
* Uses: [[Function_Reference/get_stylesheet_directory|<tt>get_stylesheet_directory()</tt>]]
* Uses: [[Function_Reference/get_locale|<tt>get_locale()</tt>]]

== Change Log ==
Since: 2.1.0

== Source File ==

<tt>get_locale_stylesheet_uri()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/theme.php}}.

== Related ==
<!--
    To Do:
    Need to find related functions.
    Need to create groups of functions and create templates to add them to a page quickly.
    Some functions may be related to many groups of functions.
-->

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]
[[Category:New_page_created]]