{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/get_post_types}}
{{it|Riferimento_funzioni/get_post_types}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/get_post_types}}
}}

== Description ==

Returns the [[Function_Reference/register_post_type|registered post types]] as found in  ''$wp_post_types''.  

== Usage ==

%%% <?php get_post_types( $args, $output, $operator ) ?> %%%

==Parameters==

{{Parameter|$args|array|An array of key value arguments to match against the post types.|optional|<tt>array()</tt>}}
Some of these include:
* public - ''Boolean. If true, only public post types will be returned.''
* publicly_queryable - ''Boolean''
* exclude_from_search - ''Boolean''
* show_ui - ''Boolean''
* capability_type
* hierarchical
* menu_position
* menu_icon
* permalink_epmask
* rewrite
* query_var
* _builtin - ''Boolean. If <tt>true</tt>, will return WordPress default post types. Use <tt>false</tt> to return only custom post types.'' 

{{Parameter|$output|string|The type of output to return, either <tt>'names'</tt> or <tt>'objects'</tt>.|optional|<tt>'names'</tt>}}

{{Parameter|$operator|string|Operator (and/or) to use with multiple <tt>$args</tt>.|optional|<tt>'and'</tt>}}

== Return Values ==

; array : A list of post names or objects.

== Examples ==
=== Default Usage ===

The call to <tt>[[Function Reference/get post types|get post types]]</tt> returns the registered post types.

 <?php $post_types = get_post_types(); ?>

=== Output a list all registered post types ===

<pre>
<?php
foreach ( get_post_types( '', 'names' ) as $post_type ) {
   echo '<p>' . $post_type . '</p>';
}
?>
</pre>

=== Output a list of all public custom post types ===

The built-in public post types are post, page, and attachment. By setting <tt>'_builtin'</tt> to <tt>false</tt>, we will exclude them and show only the custom public post types.

<pre>
<?php

$args = array(
   'public'   => true,
   '_builtin' => false
);

$output = 'names'; // names or objects, note names is the default
$operator = 'and'; // 'and' or 'or'

$post_types = get_post_types( $args, $output, $operator ); 

foreach ( $post_types  as $post_type ) {

   echo '<p>' . $post_type . '</p>';
}

?>
</pre>

=== Output a named post type ===

This example uses the <tt>'object'</tt> output to retrieve the post type called <tt>'property'</tt>:

<pre>
<?php

$args = array(
   'name' => 'property'
);

$output = 'objects'; // names or objects

$post_types = get_post_types( $args, $output );

foreach ( $post_types  as $post_type ) {

   echo '<p>' . $post_type->name . '</p>';
}

?>
</pre>

== Notes ==

Be careful when retrieving "public" custom post-types that were registered using the [http://codex.wordpress.org/Function_Reference/register_post_type register_post_type()] function: the inputs to the register_post_type function are not intelligently processed, so if you verbosely set options for '''publicly_queriable''', '''show_ui''', '''show_in_nav_menus''', and '''exclude_from_search''', this is NOT considered equivalent to setting the '''public''' option and querying for public post-types will not yield results that were defined with the equivalent explicit arguments. See [http://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/18950 bug 18950].

WordPress builtin post types:
* <tt>post</tt> - WordPress built-in post type
* <tt>page</tt> - WordPress built-in post type
* <tt>attachment</tt> - WordPress built-in post type
* <tt>revision</tt> - WordPress built-in post type
* <tt>nav_menu_item</tt> - WordPress built-in post type (Since 3.0)
* <tt>custom_css</tt> - Customizer specific
* <tt>customize_changeset</tt> - Customizer specific
* <tt>custom post type</tt> - any custom post type (Since 3.0)

== Change Log ==

* [[Version 3.0|3.0]] :
** Added the <code>operator</code> parameter.
* Since: [[Version 2.9|2.9]]

== Source File ==

<tt>get_post_types()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/post.php}}.

== Related ==
{{Post Type Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]