{{#dotorgredirect: https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/get_the_author_meta/}}

{{Languages|
{{en|Function_Reference/get_the_author_meta}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/get_the_author_meta}}
}}

== Description ==

This function returns a single meta data for a user. All meta data is available, but you must specify which field you want.

If used within [[The Loop]], the user ID need not be specified, it defaults to current post author. A user ID must be specified if used outside [[The Loop]].

get_the_author_meta() returns the data for use programmatically in PHP. To just display it instead, use [[Function Reference/the author meta|the_author_meta()]]

If the specified meta field does not exist for this user, an empty string is returned.

== Usage ==

%%% <?php get_the_author_meta( $field, $userID ); ?> %%%

== Parameters ==

; $field : (''string'') Field name for the data item to be returned.  Valid values:
:*<tt>user_login</tt>
:*<tt>user_pass</tt>
:*<tt>user_nicename</tt>
:*<tt>user_email</tt>
:*<tt>user_url</tt>
:*<tt>user_registered</tt>
:*<tt>user_activation_key</tt>
:*<tt>user_status</tt>
:*<tt>roles</tt>
:*<tt>display_name</tt>
:*<tt>nickname</tt>
:*<tt>first_name</tt>
:*<tt>last_name</tt>
:*<tt>description</tt> (<b>Biographical Info</b> from the user's profile)
:*<tt>aim</tt>
:*<tt>yim</tt>
:*<tt>jabber</tt>
:*<tt>user_level</tt>
:*<tt>user_firstname</tt>
:*<tt>user_lastname</tt>
:*<tt>rich_editing</tt>
:*<tt>comment_shortcuts</tt>
:*<tt>admin_color</tt>
:*<tt>plugins_per_page</tt>
:*<tt>plugins_last_view</tt>
:*<tt>ID</tt>

; $userID : (''integer'') If a user ID is passed to the function, it will return data for the specified user ID. Required if not in the loop. In the loop current author ID will be used.

== Examples ==

=== Get A User's Email Address ===

Get the email address for the author of the current post and store it in the <code>$user_email</code> variable for further use. (Remember, this function ''returns'' data, it doesn't display it.)

<pre>
<?php $user_email = get_the_author_meta( 'user_email' ); ?>
</pre>

=== Show a User's Display Name With Email Address Linked ===

Get the email address for user ID 25, and echo it using their display name as the anchor text.

<pre>
<p>Email the author: <a href="mailto:<?php echo get_the_author_meta( 'user_email', 25 ); ?>"><?php the_author_meta( 'display_name', 25 ); ?></a></p>
</pre>

== Notes ==

Plugins may add additional fields to the user profile, which in turn adds new key/value pairs to the wp_usermeta database table. This additional data can be retrieved by passing the field's key to the function as the <code>$field</code> parameter.

== Change Log ==

Since: 2.8.0

== Source File ==

<tt>get_the_author_meta()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/author-template.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Author Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]