{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/get_bookmarks}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/get_bookmarks}}
}}

== Description ==

This function returns an array of bookmarks found in the [[Administration Panels|Administration]] > [[Administration Panels#Links|Links]] > [[Links Edit SubPanel|Edit]] panel.  This [[Template Tags|Template Tag]] allows the user to retrieve the bookmark information directly.

== Usage ==

%%% <?php get_bookmarks( $args ); ?> %%%

=== Default Usage ===

<pre><?php $args = array(
	'orderby'        => 'name', 
	'order'          => 'ASC',
	'limit'          => -1, 
	'category'       => '',
	'category_name'  => '', 
	'hide_invisible' => 1,
	'show_updated'   => 0, 
	'include'        => '',
	'exclude'        => '',
	'search'         => '' ); ?></pre>

By default, the usage gets:
* All bookmarks ordered by name, ascending
* Bookmarks marked as hidden are not returned.
* The link_updated_f field (the update time in the form of a timestamp) is not returned.

== Parameters ==

; orderby : (''string'') Value to sort bookmarks on. Defaults to <tt>'name'</tt>. Valid options:
:* <tt>'link_id'</tt> - Before WordPress 3.2: <tt>'id'</tt>
:* <tt>'url'</tt>
:* <tt>'name'</tt> - Default
:* <tt>'owner'</tt> - User who added bookmark through bookmarks Manager.
:* <tt>'rating'</tt>
:* <tt>'visible'</tt>
:* <tt>'length'</tt> - The length of the bookmark name, shortest to longest.  
:* <tt>'rand'</tt> - Display bookmarks in random order.  

; order : (''string'') Sort order, ascending or descending for the orderby parameter. Valid values:
:* <tt>ASC</tt> - Default
:* <tt>DESC</tt>

; limit : (''integer'') Maximum number of bookmarks to display. Defaults to <tt>-1</tt> (all bookmarks).

; category : (''string'') Comma separated list of bookmark category ID's.

; category_name : (''string'') Category name of a category of bookmarks to retrieve. Overrides category parameter.

; hide_invisible : (''boolean'') TRUE causes only bookmarks with link_visible set to 'Y' to be retrieved.
:* <tt>1</tt> (True) - Default
:* <tt>0</tt> (False)

; show_updated : (''boolean'') TRUE causes an extra column called "link_category_f" to be inserted into the results, which contains the same value as "link_updated", but in a unix timestamp format. Handy for using PHP date functions on this data.
:* <tt>1</tt> (True)
:* <tt>0</tt> (False) - Default

; include : (''string'') Comma separated list of numeric bookmark IDs to include in the output.  For example, 'include=1,3,6' means to return or echo bookmark IDs 1, 3, and 6.  If the include string is used, the ''category'', ''category_name'', and ''exclude'' parameters are ignored.  Defaults to <tt><nowiki>''</nowiki></tt> (all Bookmarks).

; exclude : (''string'') Comma separated list of numeric bookmark IDs to exclude.  For example, 'exclude=4,12' means that bookmark IDs 4 and 12 will NOT be returned or echoed.  Defaults to <tt><nowiki>''</nowiki></tt> (exclude nothing).

; search : (''string'') Searches <tt>link_url</tt>, <tt>link_name</tt> or <tt>link_description</tt> like the <tt>search</tt> string. Defaults to <tt><nowiki>''</nowiki></tt>.

== Return Values ==
; (array) : List of bookmark row objects.  Each bookmark object may contain the following: 'link_id', 'link_url', 'link_name', 'link_image', 'link_target', 'link_category', 'link_description', 'link_visible', 'link_owner', 'link_rating', 'link_updated', 'link_rel', 'link_notes', 'link_rss'

== Examples ==
- Create a link category named "Related Sites"<br />
- Create a few links, adding them to the "Related Sites" category

You may use the following code in your templates to retrieve the links:
<pre>
<?php
$bookmarks = get_bookmarks( array(
	'orderby'        => 'name',
	'order'          => 'ASC',
	'category_name'  => 'Related Sites'
));

// Loop through each bookmark and print formatted output
foreach ( $bookmarks as $bookmark ) { 
    printf( '<a class="relatedlink" href="%s">%s</a><br />', $bookmark->link_url, $bookmark->link_name );
}
?>
</pre>

- Create posts from Blogroll or Bookmark Items, useful if you want to migrate any of them before Blogrolls are no longer supported.

<pre>
// Create posts from blogroll items
// set $test to true so we don't actually create posts
$test = true;

$args = array(
	'orderby'        => 'name', 
	'order'          => 'ASC',
	'limit'          => -1, 
	'hide_invisible' => 1,
	'show_updated'   => 0, 
	'include'        => '',
	'exclude'        => '',
	'search'         => '' ); 
$thelist = get_bookmarks( $args ); 

echo "<PRE>";
//print_r($thelist);
$my_status = 'publish';
$post_type = 'clients';

$errors = array();
$k = 0;
foreach ($thelist as $item) {
	$link_category = $item->link_category;
	//echo "postarr $k\n";
	//print_r($postarr);


	$k++;
	$link_url = $item->link_url;
	$link_id = $item->link_id;
	$link_name = $item->link_name;
	$link_description = $item->link_description;
	$postarr = array(
		'post_type' => $post_type,
		'post_content' => $link_description,
		'post_title' => $link_name,
		'post_excerpt' => $link_description,
		'menu_order' => $link_id,
		'post_status' => $my_status,
		);
	// see if there is an existing post?
	$there_is_one_already = get_page_by_title( $link_name, OBJECT , $post_type );
	if ( $there_is_one_already) {
		echo "there_is_one_already: $link_name, so we are skipping...\n";
		print_r($there_is_one_already);
		continue;
	}
	$newpost_id = '';
	if (!$test) {
		//if ($k>1) {continue;} // only do first
		$newpost_id = wp_insert_post( $postarr);
		if (!$newpost_id) {$errors[] = $link_name; continue;}
		echo "created $post_type id $new_post_id\n";
		//create a custom field with the link_url
		add_post_meta( $newpost_id, 'link_url', $link_url );
	}
	
}

print_r($errors);


</pre>

== Changelog ==

Since: [[Version 2.1|2.1.0]]

== Source File ==

<tt>get_bookmarks()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/bookmark.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Bookmark Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]