{{Stub}}
== Description ==

Calculate the total number of comment pages.

This function lets you calculate how many pages of comments there will be for a post, given the number of comments to show per page, and whether the comments should be threaded or not.

== Usage ==
%%%<?php get_comment_pages_count( $comments, $per_page, $threaded); ?>%%%
== Parameters ==
{{Parameter|$comment|array|array of comment objects. If empty, <tt>$wp_query->comments</tt> will be used.|optional|<tt>null</tt>}}
{{Parameter|$per_page|integer|comments per page.|optional|<tt>null</tt>}}
{{Parameter|$threaded|boolean|control over flat or threaded comments.|optional|<tt>null</tt>}}

== Return Values ==
{{Return||float|Number of comment pages.}}

== Examples ==

This function can be used within the loop like this:

 $pages = get_comment_pages_count();

This will use the defaults for the number of comments per page and threading. You can use custom values like this:

<pre>
// Show 25 comments per page.
$pages = get_comment_pages_count( null, 25 );

// Don't thread comments.
$pages = get_comment_pages_count( null, null, false ); 

// Show 10 comments per page, use threading.
$pages = get_comment_pages_count( null, 10, true ); 
</pre>

When inside the loop, you can just pass <tt>null</tt> as the value for the <tt>$comment</tt> parameter, as shown above. You can also use the function outside the loop, but you need to pass in the array of comments. For example, you may perform a custom comment query using <tt>[[Class_Reference/WP_Comment_Query | WP_Comment_Query]]</tt>:

<pre>
$args = array(
   // query args here
);

$comments_query = new WP_Comment_Query;
$comments = $comments_query->query( $args );

$pages = get_comment_pages_count( $comments );
</pre>

== Notes ==

* Typically you cannot use this function before the [[The Loop]] has started.

== Change Log ==

Since: [[Version 2.7|2.7.0]]

== Source File ==

<tt>get_comment_pages_count()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/comment.php}}.

== Related ==
{{Tag Footer}}
[[Category:Functions]]