{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/get_linksbyname}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/get_linksbyname}}
}}

{{Deprecated}}
== Description ==

Like [[Template Tags/wp_get_linksbyname|wp_get_linksbyname()]], this tag displays links from the [[Links Manager]], but allows the user to control how they are displayed by tag parameters, rather than through the WordPress admin interface (useful when displaying links on more than one template).

== Replace With ==

[[Template_Tags/wp_list_bookmarks|wp_list_bookmarks()]].

== Usage ==

%%% <?php get_linksbyname('cat_name', 'before', 
'after', 'between', show_images, 'orderby',
show_description, show_rating, limit, 
show_updated); ?> %%%

== Examples ==

===Default Usage===

By default, the tag shows:

* All categories if none are specified
* All category links are shown
* Puts a line break after the link item
* Puts a space between the image and link (if one is included)
* Shows link images if available
* List sorted by ID
* Shows the link description
* Does not show the rating
* With no limit listed, it shows all links
* Does not show the updated timestamp

 <?php get_linksbyname(); ?>

=== Specific Category Sorted by Name ===

Displays links for link category "Friends" in an unordered list with descriptions on the next line, sorts by link name. 

 &lt;ul&gt;
 <?php get_linksbyname('Friends', '&lt;li&gt;', '&lt;/li&gt;', '&lt;br /&gt;', FALSE, 
 'name', TRUE); ?>
 &lt;/ul&gt;

=== With Images and Ratings, No Descriptions===

Displays all links one per line without descriptions, uses images for links, sorts by link name, and shows ratings.

 <?php get_linksbyname(&#39;&#39;, &#39;&#39;, '&lt;br /&gt;', &#39;&#39;, TRUE, 'name', FALSE, TRUE); ?>


=== As a Definition List with Images and Descriptions in Separate Tags ===

Displays all links in a Definition List, places linked images in the &lt;dt&gt;, descriptions in the &lt;dd&gt;, and sorts by rating but doesn't show it.

 &lt;dl&gt;
   &lt;?php get_linksbyname('Portfolio', '&lt;dt&gt;',
        '&lt;/dd&gt;','&lt;/dt&gt;&lt;dd&gt;', TRUE, 'rating',
        TRUE, FALSE, -1, FALSE); ?&gt; 
 &lt;/dl&gt;

To see examples of styling this markup in a fluid/elastic, multi-column layout with backgrounds and hover effects, please see [http://www.scottmcdaniel.com/?p=33 Manipulating Definition Lists for Fun and Profit].

== Parameters ==
; cat_name : (''string'') The name of the link category whose links will be displayed. If none is specified, all links are shown. Defaults to <tt>'noname'</tt> (all links).
; before : (''string'') Text to place before each link. There is no default.
; after : (''string'') Text to place after each link. Defaults to <tt>'&lt;br /&gt;'</tt>.
; between : (''string'') Text to place between each link/image and its description. Defaults to <tt>' '</tt> (space).
; show_images : (''boolean'') Should images for links be shown (<tt>TRUE</tt>) or not (<tt>FALSE</tt>). Defaults to <tt>TRUE</tt>.
; orderby : (''string'') Value to sort links on. Defaults to <tt>'id'</tt>. Valid options:
:* <tt>'id'</tt>
:* <tt>'url'</tt>
:* <tt>'name'</tt>
:* <tt>'target'</tt>
:* <tt>'category'</tt>
:* <tt>'description'</tt>
:* <tt>'owner'</tt> - User who added link through Links Manager.
:* <tt>'rating'</tt>
:* <tt>'updated'</tt>
:* <tt>'rel'</tt> - Link relationship (XFN).
:* <tt>'notes'</tt>
:* <tt>'rss'</tt>
:* <tt>'length'</tt> - The length of the link name, shortest to longest.
: '''Prefixing any of the above options with an underscore (ex: '''<tt>'_id'</tt>''') sorts links in reverse order.'''
:* <tt>'rand'</tt> - Display links in random order.
; show_description : (''boolean'') Display the description (<tt>TRUE</tt>) or not (<tt>FALSE</tt>). Valid if '''show_images''' is <tt>FALSE</tt> or an image is not defined. Defaults to <tt>TRUE</tt>.
; show_rating : (''boolean'') Should rating stars/characters be displayed (<tt>TRUE</tt>) or not (<tt>FALSE</tt>). Defaults to <tt>FALSE</tt>.
; limit : (''integer'') Maximum number of links to display. Defaults to <tt>-1</tt> (all links).
; show_updated : (''boolean'') Should the last updated timestamp be displayed (<tt>TRUE</tt>) or not (<tt>FALSE</tt>). Defaults to <tt>FALSE</tt>.

== Related ==

{{Bookmark Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]