{{#dotorgredirect: https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/get_bloginfo/}}

{{Languages|
{{en|Template Tags/get_bloginfo}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/get_bloginfo}}
{{pt-br|Template Tags/get_bloginfo}}
{{tr|Tema Etiketleri/get_bloginfo}}
{{ru|Теги шаблонов/get_bloginfo}}
}}

== Description ==

Returns information about your site which can then be used elsewhere in your PHP code. This function, as well as [[Template Tags/bloginfo|bloginfo()]], can also be used to display your site information anywhere within a template file.

== Usage ==

%%% <?php $bloginfo = get_bloginfo( $show, $filter ); ?> %%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$show|string|Keyword naming the information you want.|Optional|name}}

:* ''''name'''' - Returns the "Site Title" set in [[Administration_Panels#General|Settings]] > [[Settings_General_SubPanel|General]]. This data is retrieved from the "blogname" record in the [[Database Description#Table:_wp_options|wp_options table]].
:* ''''description'''' - Returns the "Tagline" set in [[Administration_Panels#General|Settings]] > [[Settings_General_SubPanel|General]]. This data is retrieved from the "blogdescription" record in the [[Database Description#Table:_wp_options|wp_options table]].
:* ''''wpurl'''' - Returns the "WordPress address (URL)" set in [[Administration_Panels#General|Settings]] > [[Settings_General_SubPanel|General]]. This data is retrieved from the "siteurl" record in the [[Database Description#Table:_wp_options|wp_options table]]. Consider using [[Function_Reference/site_url | site_url()]] instead, especially for multi-site configurations using paths instead of subdomains (it will return the root site not the current sub-site).
:* ''''url'''' - Returns the "Site address (URL)" set in [[Administration_Panels#General|Settings]] > [[Settings_General_SubPanel|General]]. This data is retrieved from the "home" record in the [[Database Description#Table:_wp_options|wp_options table]]. Equivalent to [[Function_Reference/home_url | home_url()]].
:* ''''admin_email'''' - Returns the "E-mail address" set in [[Administration_Panels#General|Settings]] > [[Settings_General_SubPanel|General]]. This data is retrieved from the "admin_email" record in the [[Database Description#Table:_wp_options|wp_options table]].
:* ''''charset'''' - Returns the "Encoding for pages and feeds" set in [[Administration_Panels#Reading|Settings]] > [[Settings_Reading_SubPanel|Reading]]. This data is retrieved from the "blog_charset" record in the [[Database Description#Table:_wp_options|wp_options table]]. 
:* ''''version'''' - Returns the WordPress Version you use. This data is retrieved from the <tt>$wp_version</tt> variable set in {{Trac|wp-includes/version.php}}.
:* ''''html_type'''' - Returns the Content-Type of WordPress HTML pages (default: "text/html"). This data is retrieved from the "html_type" record in the [[Database Description#Table:_wp_options|wp_options table]]. Themes and plugins can override the default value using the <tt>[[Plugin_API/Filter_Reference|pre_option_html_type]]</tt> filter.
:* ''''text_direction'''' - Returns the Text Direction of WordPress HTML pages.  Consider using [[Function_Reference/is_rtl | is_rtl()]] instead.
:* ''''language'''' - Returns the language of WordPress.
:* ''''stylesheet_url'''' - Returns the primary [[Glossary#CSS|CSS]] (usually ''style.css'') file URL of the active theme. Consider using [[Function_Reference/get_stylesheet_uri | get_stylesheet_uri()]] instead.
:* ''''stylesheet_directory'''' - Returns the stylesheet directory URL of the active theme. (Was a local path in earlier WordPress versions.) Consider using [[Function_Reference/get_stylesheet_directory_uri | get_stylesheet_directory_uri()]] instead.
:* ''''template_url'''' / ''''template_directory'''' - URL of the active theme's directory ('template_directory' was a local path before [[Version 2.6|2.6]]; see [[Function_Reference/get_theme_root|get_theme_root()]] and [[Function_Reference/get_template|get_template()]] for hackish alternatives.)  Within child themes, both get_bloginfo('template_url') and get_template() will return the <em>parent</em> theme directory. Consider using [[Function_Reference/get_template_directory_uri | get_template_directory_uri()]] instead (for the parent template directory) or [[Function_Reference/get_stylesheet_directory_uri | get_stylesheet_directory_uri()]] (for the child template directory).
:* ''''pingback_url'''' - Returns the Pingback XML-RPC file URL (''xmlrpc.php'').
:* ''''atom_url'''' - Returns the Atom feed URL (''/feed/atom'').
:* ''''rdf_url'''' - Returns the RDF/RSS 1.0 feed URL (''/feed/rfd'').
:* ''''rss_url'''' - Returns the RSS 0.92 feed URL (''/feed/rss'').
:* ''''rss2_url'''' - Returns the RSS 2.0 feed URL (''/feed'').
:* ''''comments_atom_url'''' - Returns the comments Atom feed URL (''/comments/feed'').
:* ''''comments_rss2_url'''' - Returns the comments RSS 2.0 feed URL (''/comments/feed'').
:* ''''siteurl'''' - Deprecated since version 2.2. Use [[Function_Reference/home_url | home_url()]], or get_bloginfo('url').
:* ''''home'''' - Deprecated since version 2.2. Use [[Function_Reference/home_url | home_url()]], or get_bloginfo('url').

{{Parameter|$filter|string|Keyword specifying how to filter what is retrieved.|Optional|raw}}

:* ''''display'''' - Passes the value of <tt>$show</tt> through the [[Function_Reference/wptexturize | wptexturize()]] function before returning it to caller.
:* ''''raw'''' - Returns the value of <tt>$show</tt> as is.

== Examples ==

===Default Usage===

The default usage assigns your blog's title to the variable $blog_title.

<pre>
 <?php $blog_title = get_bloginfo(); ?>
</pre>

=== Blog Title ===

This example assign your blog's title to the variable $blog_title.  This returns the same result as the default usage.

<pre>
 <?php $blog_title = get_bloginfo('name'); ?>
</pre>

===Blog Tagline ===

Using this example:

<pre>
 <?php echo 'Your Blog Tagline is: ' . get_bloginfo ( 'description' );  ?><br />
</pre>

results in this being displayed on your blog:

<pre>
 Your Blog Tagline is: All things WordPress
</pre>

===Network Tagline ===

Using this example, you can obtain the name and description for the network home:

<pre>
 <?php
 switch_to_blog(1);
 $site_title = get_bloginfo( 'name' );
 $site_url = network_site_url( '/' );
 $site_description = get_bloginfo( 'description' );
 restore_current_blog();
 echo 'The Network Home URL is: ' . $site_url;
 echo 'The Network Home Name is: ' . $site_title;
 echo 'The Network Home Tagline is: ' . $site_description;  
?>
</pre>

results in this being displayed on your blog:

<pre>
 The Network Home URL is: http://example.com/
 The Network Home Name is: Example
 The Network Home Tagline is: The example site
</pre>

=== Template Directory ===
Returns template directory URL to the active theme.

=== Example output ===

From version 2.7. On host <tt>example</tt>, the [[Settings_General_SubPanel|Blog address (URL)]] is shown at <tt>http://www.example.com/home</tt>, and the [[Settings_General_SubPanel|WordPress address (URL)]] is installed at <tt>http://www.example.com/home/wp</tt>.

Note that directory URLs are missing trailing slashes.

<pre>
admin_email          = admin@example.com
atom_url             = http://www.example.com/home/feed/atom
charset              = UTF-8
comments_atom_url    = http://www.example.com/home/comments/feed/atom
comments_rss2_url    = http://www.example.com/home/comments/feed
description          = Just another WordPress blog
home                 = http://www.example.com/home (DEPRECATED! use url option instead)
html_type            = text/html
language             = en-US
name                 = Testpilot
pingback_url         = http://www.example.com/home/wp/xmlrpc.php
rdf_url              = http://www.example.com/home/feed/rdf
rss2_url             = http://www.example.com/home/feed
rss_url              = http://www.example.com/home/feed/rss
siteurl              = http://www.example.com/home (DEPRECATED! use url option instead)
stylesheet_directory = http://www.example.com/home/wp/wp-content/themes/largo
stylesheet_url       = http://www.example.com/home/wp/wp-content/themes/largo/style.css
template_directory   = http://www.example.com/home/wp/wp-content/themes/largo
template_url         = http://www.example.com/home/wp/wp-content/themes/largo
text_direction       = ltr
url                  = http://www.example.com/home
version              = 3.5
wpurl                = http://www.example.com/home/wp
</pre>

== Change Log ==

Since: [[Version 0.71|0.71]]

== Source File ==
<tt>get_bloginfo()</tt> is located in <tt>{{Trac|wp-includes/general-template.php|tags/{{CurrentVersion}}|400}}</tt>.

== Related ==
* [[Template_Tags/bloginfo|<tt>bloginfo()</tt>]]
* [[Function_Reference/get_admin_url|<tt>get_admin_url()</tt>]]
{{Theme Paths}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]