{{#dotorgredirect: https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/get_the_post_thumbnail/}}

{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/get_the_post_thumbnail}}
{{it|Riferimento funzioni/get_the_post_thumbnail}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/get_the_post_thumbnail}}
}}

== Description ==

Gets the Featured Image (formerly called Post Thumbnail) as set in post's or page's edit screen and returns an HTML image element representing a Featured Image, if there is any, otherwise an empty string.

'''Note:''' To enable Post Thumbnails, the current theme must include <code>[[Function Reference/add theme support|add_theme_support]]( 'post-thumbnails' );</code> in its <tt>[[Theme_Development#Functions_File|functions.php]]</tt> file. See also [[Post Thumbnails]].

== Usage ==

%%% <?php echo get_the_post_thumbnail( $post_id, $size, $attr ); ?> %%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$post_id|integer|Post ID.|Optional|Post ID}}
{{Parameter|$size|string/array|Either a string keyword (thumbnail, medium, large or full) or a 2-item array representing width and height in pixels, e.g. array(32,32).|Optional|'post-thumbnail'}}
{{Parameter|$attr|string/array|Query string or array of attributes. See [[Function Reference/wp_get_attachment_image|wp_get_attachment_image]].|optional}}
<pre>
$default_attr = array(
	'src'	=> $src,
	'class'	=> "attachment-$size",
	'alt'	=> trim( strip_tags( $attachment->post_excerpt ) ),
	'title'	=> trim( strip_tags( $attachment->post_title ) ),
);
</pre>

==Return Values==

Returns a string containing an HTML image element, or an empty string if no post thumbnail is found.

== Examples ==

=== Sample Usage ===

<pre><nowiki><?php $pages = get_pages( array( 'child_of' => 1 ) ); ?> 
<ul>
	<?php foreach ( $pages as $page ) : ?>
		<li>
			<?php echo get_the_post_thumbnail( $page->ID, 'thumbnail' ); ?>
			<h1><?php echo apply_filters( 'the_title', $page->post_title, $page->ID ); ?></h1>
			<?php echo apply_filters( 'the_content', $page->post_content ); ?>
		</li>
	<?php endforeach; ?>
</ul></nowiki></pre>

=== Thumbnail Sizes  ===

The default image sizes of WordPress are "thumbnail", "medium", "large" and "full" (the size of the image you uploaded). These image sizes can be configured in the WordPress Administration [[Settings Media SubPanel|Media panel]] under Settings > Media. Themes may also add "post-thumbnail". This is how you can use these default sizes with get_the_post_thumbnail():

 // without parameter -> Post Thumbnail (as set by theme using set_post_thumbnail_size())
 get_the_post_thumbnail( $post_id );                   
 
 get_the_post_thumbnail( $post_id, 'thumbnail' );      // Thumbnail (Note: different to Post Thumbnail)
 get_the_post_thumbnail( $post_id, 'medium' );         // Medium resolution
 get_the_post_thumbnail( $post_id, 'large' );          // Large resolution
 get_the_post_thumbnail( $post_id, 'full' );           // Original resolution
 
 get_the_post_thumbnail( $post_id, array( 100, 100) ); // Other resolutions

Register new image sizes for Post Thumbnails with: [[Function Reference/add_image_size|add_image_size()]].<br />To set the default size for Post Thumbnails see: [[Function Reference/set_post_thumbnail_size|set_post_thumbnail_size()]].

=== Post Thumbnail Linking to the Post Permalink ===

This example shows the 5 latest Post Thumbnails linked to their Post permalink.

<pre><?php 
$thumbnails = get_posts( 'numberposts=5' );
foreach ( $thumbnails as $thumbnail ) {
	if ( has_post_thumbnail( $thumbnail->ID ) ) {
		echo '<a href="' . get_permalink( $thumbnail->ID ) . '" title="' . esc_attr( $thumbnail->post_title ) . '">';
		echo get_the_post_thumbnail( $thumbnail->ID, 'thumbnail' );
		echo '</a>';
	}
}
?></pre>

=== Post Thumbnail Linking to large Image Size ===

This example links to the "large" Post Thumbnail image size and must be used within [[The Loop]].

<pre><?php 
if ( has_post_thumbnail() ) {
	$large_image_url = wp_get_attachment_image_src( get_post_thumbnail_id( $post->ID ), 'large' );
	echo '<a href="' . $large_image_url[0] . '" title="' . the_title_attribute( 'echo=0' ) . '" >';
	echo get_the_post_thumbnail( $post->ID, 'thumbnail' ); 
	echo '</a>';
}
?></pre>

=== Styling Post Thumbnails ===

Post Thumbnails are given a class "wp-post-image". They also get a class depending on the size of the thumbnail being displayed
You can style the output with these [[Glossary#CSS|CSS selectors]]:

 img.wp-post-image
 img.attachment-thumbnail
 img.attachment-medium
 img.attachment-large
 img.attachment-full

You can also give Post Thumbnails their own class.<br>Give the Post Thumbnail a class "alignleft".

 <?php echo get_the_post_thumbnail( $post_id, 'thumbnail', array( 'class' => 'alignleft' ) ); ?>

== Notes ==

If the required <code>add_theme_support( 'post-thumbnails' );</code> in the current theme's <tt>[[Theme Development#Theme Functions File|functions.php]]</tt> file is attached to a hook, it must be must be called before the init hook is fired. The [[Plugin API/Action Reference/init|<tt>init</tt>]] hook may be too late for some features. If attached to a hook, it must be [[Plugin API/Action Reference/after_setup_theme|<tt>after_setup_theme</tt>]].

== Change Log  ==

Since: [[Version 2.9|2.9.0]]

== Source File ==

<tt>get_the_post_thumbnail()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/post-thumbnail-template.php}}.

== External Resources ==

* [http://justintadlock.com/archives/2009/11/16/everything-you-need-to-know-about-wordpress-2-9s-post-image-feature Everything you need to know about WordPress 2.9’s post image feature], by JustinTadlock.com
* [http://wpengineer.com/the-ultimative-guide-for-the_post_thumbnail-in-wordpress-2-9/ The Ultimative Guide For the_post_thumbnail In WordPress 2.9], by wpEngineer.com

== Related ==

{{Post Thumbnail Tags}} [[Function Reference/wp_get_attachment_image_src|wp_get_attachment_image_src]]

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]