== Description ==
This function returns an array of all the [[Glossary#Toolbar|Toolbar]] items on the current page. Toolbar items are also called "nodes".

The Toolbar replaces the [[Glossary#Admin_Bar|Admin Bar]] since WordPress [[Version 3.3]].

'''note''': This function is a method of the [[Class_Reference/WP_Admin_Bar|WP_Admin_Bar]] class and <tt>$wp_admin_bar</tt> global object, which may not exist except during the [[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/admin_bar_menu|'admin_bar_menu']] or [[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/wp_before_admin_bar_render|'wp_before_admin_bar_render']] hooks.

== Usage ==
%%%<?php $wp_admin_bar->get_nodes(); ?>%%%

== Parameters ==
This tag does not accept any parameters.

== Examples ==
===Add a Span Before the Title of All Toolbar Items ===
This example adds an empty span with the class "my-class" before every Toolbar item's title.
Put this in your theme's [[Functions_File_Explained|functions.php]] file.
<pre>
add_action( 'admin_bar_menu', 'all_toolbar_nodes', 999 );

function all_toolbar_nodes( $wp_admin_bar ) {

	$all_toolbar_nodes = $wp_admin_bar->get_nodes();

	foreach ( $all_toolbar_nodes as $node ) {

		// use the same node's properties
		$args = $node;

		// put a span before the title
		$args->title = '<span class="my-class"></span>' . $node->title;

		// update the Toolbar node
		$wp_admin_bar->add_node( $args );
	}

}
</pre>

===Display all Node ID's of the Current Page in the Toolbar===
This example will add all node ID's on the current page to a top-level Toolbar item called "Node ID's". This is for developers who want to find out what the node ID is for a specific node. Put this in your theme's [[Functions_File_Explained|functions.php]] file.

<pre>
// use 'wp_before_admin_bar_render' hook to also get nodes produced by plugins.
add_action( 'wp_before_admin_bar_render', 'add_all_node_ids_to_toolbar' );

function add_all_node_ids_to_toolbar() {

	global $wp_admin_bar;
	$all_toolbar_nodes = $wp_admin_bar->get_nodes();

	if ( $all_toolbar_nodes ) {

		// add a top-level Toolbar item called "Node Id's" to the Toolbar
		$args = array(
			'id'    => 'node_ids',
			'title' => 'Node ID\'s'
		);
		$wp_admin_bar->add_node( $args );

		// add all current parent node id's to the top-level node.
		foreach ( $all_toolbar_nodes as $node  ) {
			if ( isset($node->parent) && $node->parent ) {

				$args = array(
					'id'     => 'node_id_'.$node->id, // prefix id with "node_id_" to make it a unique id
					'title'  => $node->id,
					'parent' => 'node_ids'
					// 'href' => $node->href,
				);
				// add parent node to node "node_ids"
				$wp_admin_bar->add_node($args);
			}
		}

		// add all current Toolbar items to their parent node or to the top-level node
		foreach ( $all_toolbar_nodes as $node ) {

			$args = array(
				'id'      => 'node_id_'.$node->id, // prefix id with "node_id_" to make it a unique id
				'title'   => $node->id,
				// 'href' => $node->href,
			);

			if ( isset($node->parent) && $node->parent ) {
				$args['parent'] = 'node_id_'.$node->parent;
			} else {
				$args['parent'] = 'node_ids';
			}

			$wp_admin_bar->add_node($args);
		}
	}
}
</pre>

== Return Values ==
* Array with node objects.

== Change Log ==

== Source File ==
<tt>get_nodes()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/class-wp-admin-bar.php}}.

== Related ==
{{Toolbar_Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]
{{copyedit}}