{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/get_month_link}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/get_month_link}}
}}

== Description ==

Returns the monthly archive [[Glossary#URI and URL|URL]] to a specific year and month for use in [[Glossary#PHP|PHP]]. It does NOT display the URL. If year and month parameters are set to <tt>&#39;&#39;</tt>, the tag returns the URL for the current month's archive.

In a Plugin or Theme, it can be used as early as the [[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/setup_theme|setup_theme]] Action.  Any earlier usage, including [[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/plugins_loaded|plugins_loaded]], generates a Fatal Error.

== Usage ==

%%% <?php get_month_link( $year, $month ); ?> %%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|year|boolean/integer|The year for the archive. Use <tt>&#39;&#39;</tt> to assign current year.|optional}}
{{Parameter|month|boolean/integer|The month for the archive. Use <tt>&#39;&#39;</tt> to assign current month.|optional}}

== Examples ==

=== Month Archive as Link ===

Returns the URL to the current month's archive as a link by displaying it within an anchor tag with the PHP echo command. 

<pre>
<a href="<?php echo get_month_link('', ''); ?>">All posts this month</a>
</pre>

=== Assigning Specific Month to Variable ===

Returns URL to the archive for October 2004, assigning it to the variable $oct_04. The variable can then be used elsewhere in a page.

<pre>
<?php $oct_04 = get_month_link('2004', '10'); ?>
</pre>

=== Use With PHP Variables ===

PHP code block for use within [[The Loop]]: Assigns year and month of a post to the variables $arc_year and $arc_month. These are used with the get_month_link() tag, which returns the URL as a link to the monthly archive for that post, displaying it within an anchor tag with the PHP echo command. See [[Formatting Date and Time]] for info on format strings used in [[Function_Reference/get_the time|get_the_time()]] tag.

<pre>
<?php $archive_year  = get_the_time('Y'); ?>
<?php $archive_month = get_the_time('m'); ?>

<a href="<?php echo get_month_link( $archive_year, $archive_month ); ?>">
Archive for <?php the_time('F Y'); ?>
</a>
</pre>

== Changelog ==

Since: 1.0.0

== Source File ==

<tt>get_month_link()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/link-template.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Date Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]