{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/image_constrain_size_for_editor}}
{{it|Riferimento funzioni/image_constrain_size_for_editor}}
}}
== Description ==

Scale down the default size of an image.

This is so that the image is a better fit for the editor and theme.

The $size parameter accepts either an array or a string. The supported string values are 'thumb' or 'thumbnail' for the given thumbnail size or defaults at 128 width and 96 height in pixels. Also supported for the string value is 'medium' and 'full'. The 'full' isn't actually supported, but any value other than the supported will result in the content_width size or 500 if that is not set.

Finally, there is a filter named, 'editor_max_image_size' that will be called on the calculated array for width and height, respectively. The second parameter will be the value that was in the $size parameter. The returned type for the hook is an array with the width as the first element and the height as the second element.

'''Important''' (when dealing with the [http://codex.wordpress.org/Function_Reference/add_image_size#Reserved_Image_Size_Names default sizes]): Remember, that there's some automagically call to the options table. It will set the <code>$max_/$min_width</code> to what you defined under "admin UI" » "Settings" » "Media" and can't get overwritten without some [http://chat.stackexchange.com/transcript/message/2334997#2334997 dirty hacks] to <code>get_option()</code> filters.

== Usage ==

%%%<?php image_constrain_size_for_editor( $width, $height, $size ); ?>%%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$width|int|Width of the image|required}}

{{Parameter|$height|int|Height of the image|required}}

{{Parameter|$size|string&#124;array|Size of what the result image should be.|optional|medium}}

== Return Values ==

{{Return||array|Width and height of what the result image should resize to.}}

== Change Log ==

Since: [[Version 2.5|2.5]]

== Source File ==

<tt>image_constrain_size_for_editor()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/media.php}}

[[Category:Functions]]

[[Category:New_page_created]]