{{Languages|
{{en|Function_Reference/is_admin}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/is_admin}}
}}

==Description==
This [[Conditional Tags|Conditional Tag]] checks if the Dashboard or the administration panel is attempting to be displayed. It is a boolean function that will return <tt>true</tt> if the URL being accessed is in the admin section, or <tt>false</tt> for a front-end page.

This function '''does not''' verify whether the current user has permission to view the Dashboard or the administration panel. Use [[Function_Reference/current_user_can|current_user_can()]] instead.

==Usage==
%%%<?php is_admin(); ?>%%%

==Parameters==
This tag does not accept any parameters.

==Return Values==
; <tt>(boolean)</tt> : True on success, false on failure.

==Examples==
<pre>
if ( ! is_admin() ) {
     echo "You are viewing the theme";
} else {
     echo "You are viewing the WordPress Administration Panels";
}
</pre>

==Notes==

* <tt>is_admin()</tt> will return <tt>false</tt> when trying to access wp-login.php.
* <tt>is_admin()</tt> will return <tt>true</tt> when trying to make an ajax request (both front-end and back-end requests)
* <tt>is_admin()</tt> will return <tt>true</tt> for calls to load-scripts.php and load-styles.php.
* <tt>is_admin()</tt> is ''not'' intended to be used for security checks. It will return true whenever the current URL is for a page on the admin side of WordPress. It does not check if the user is logged in, nor if the user even has access to the page being requested. It is a convenience function for plugins and themes to use for various purposes, but it is not suitable for validating secured requests.

==Change Log==
Since: 1.5.1

== Source File ==
<!-- Need links to current source code files -->
<tt>is_admin()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/load.php}}.

==Related==

{{Conditional Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Conditional Tags]]
[[Category:Functions]]