{{#dotorgredirect: https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/is_category/}}

{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/is_category}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/is_category}}
{{ru|Справочник_по_функциям/is_category}}
}}

==Description==
This [[Conditional Tags|Conditional Tag]] checks if a Category archive page is being displayed. This is a boolean function, meaning it returns either TRUE or FALSE.

To test if a post <i>is in</i> a category use [[Function Reference/in_category| in_category()]].

==Usage==
%%%<?php is_category( $category ); ?>%%%

==Parameters==
{{Parameter|$category|mixed|Category ID, Category Title, Category Slug or Array of IDs, names, and slugs.|optional}}

==Return Values==
; <tt>(boolean)</tt> : True on success, false on failure.

==Examples==
 is_category();
 // When any Category archive page is being displayed.
 
 is_category( '9' );
 // When the archive page for Category 9 is being displayed.
 
 is_category( 'Stinky Cheeses' );
 // When the archive page for the Category with Name "Stinky Cheeses" is being displayed.
 
 is_category( 'blue-cheese' );
 // When the archive page for the Category with Category Slug "blue-cheese" is being displayed.
 
 is_category( array( 9, 'blue-cheese', 'Stinky Cheeses' ) );
 // Returns true when the category of posts being displayed is either term_ID 9, or ''slug'' "blue-cheese", or ''name'' "Stinky Cheeses". Note: the array ability was added at [[Version 2.5]].

==Notes==
* See also <tt>[[Function Reference/is_archive|is_archive()]]</tt> and [[Category Templates]].
* For [[Taxonomies#Custom_Taxonomies|Custom Taxonomies]] use [[Function Reference/is_tax|is_tax()]]

==Change Log==
* Since: [[Version 1.5|1.5.0]]

== Source File ==
<tt>is_category()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/query.php}}.

==Related==

{{Conditional Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Conditional Tags]]
[[Category:Functions]]