{{#dotorgredirect:https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/is_home/}}

{{Languages|
{{en|Function_Reference/is_home}}
{{zh-cn|Function_Reference/is_home}}
{{he|סימוכין פונקציות/is_home}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/is_home}}
{{tr|Fonksiyon_Listesi/is_home}}
}}
==Description==
This [[Conditional Tags|Conditional Tag]] checks if the [[Template_Hierarchy#Home_Page_display|blog posts index page]] is being displayed. This is a Boolean function, meaning it returns either TRUE or FALSE.

==Usage==
%%%<?php is_home(); ?>%%%

==Parameters==
This tag does not accept any parameters.

==Return Values==
; <tt>(boolean)</tt> : True on success, false on failure.

==Blog Posts Index vs. Site Front Page==
Since WordPress 2.1, when the static front page functionality was introduced, the blog posts index and site front page have been treated as two different query contexts, with <code>is_home()</code> applying to the blog posts index, and <code>is_front_page()</code> applying to the site front page.

Be careful not to confuse the two query conditionals:

* On the site front page, <code>is_front_page()</code> will always return <code>TRUE</code>, regardless of whether the site front page displays the blog posts index or a static page.
* On the blog posts index, <code>is_home()</code> will always return <code>TRUE</code>, regardless of whether the blog posts index is displayed on the site front page or a separate page.

Whether <code>is_home()</code> or <code>is_front_page()</code> return <code>TRUE</code> or <code>FALSE</code> depends on the values of certain option values:

* <code>get_option( 'show_on_front' )</code>: returns either <code>'posts'</code> or <code>'page'</code>
* <code>get_option( 'page_on_front' )</code>: returns the <code>ID</code> of the static page assigned to the front page
* <code>get_option( 'page_for_posts' )</code>: returns the <code>ID</code> of the static page assigned to the blog posts index (posts page)

When using these query conditionals:

* If <code>'posts' == get_option( 'show_on_front' )</code>:
** On the site front page:
*** <code>is_front_page()</code> will return <code>TRUE</code>
*** <code>is_home()</code> will return <code>TRUE</code>
** If assigned, WordPress ignores the pages assigned to display the site front page or the blog posts index
*If <code>'page' == get_option( 'show_on_front' )</code>:
** On the page assigned to display the site front page:
*** <code>is_front_page()</code> will return <code>TRUE</code>
*** <code>is_home()</code> will return <code>FALSE</code>
** On the page assigned to display the blog posts index:
*** <code>is_front_page()</code> will return <code>FALSE</code>
*** <code>is_home()</code> will return <code>TRUE</code>

==Examples==
The following example can be used in your sidebar to display different content when displaying the blog posts index.
%%%
<?php
if ( is_home() ) {
    // This is the blog posts index
    get_sidebar( 'blog' );
} else {
    // This is not the blog posts index
    get_sidebar();
}
?>
%%%

==Notes==

<code>is_home</code> uses the global <var>$wp_query</var> WP_Query object. <code>is_home</code> isn't usable before the [[Plugin API\Action Reference\parse_query|parse_query]] action.

* See Also: [[Function Reference/is front page|is_front_page()]]

==Obsolete Usage==

Prior to WordPress 2.1, WordPress did not have static front page functionality, which meant that the site front page and the blog posts index were always the same. Thus, <code>is_home()</code> always returned <code>TRUE</code> on the site front page. 

==Change Log==
Since: 1.5.0

==Source File==
<!-- Need links to current source code files -->
<tt>is_home()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/query.php}}.

==Related==

{{Conditional Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Conditional Tags]]
[[Category:Functions]]