{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/is_main_query}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/is_main_query}}
{{es|Referencia de la funcion/is_main_query}}
}}

This page was moved to https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/is_main_query except above language locator.

<!--
==Description==
The <code>is_main_query()</code> function is a [[Conditional Tags|'''conditional function''']] that can be used to evaluate whether the current query (such as within the loop) is the "main" query (as opposed to a secondary query).

This function is most commonly used within hooks to distinguish WordPress' '''main''' query (for a page, post, or archive) from a custom/secondary query.

<code>is_main_query()</code> may be used with both front-end queries (theme templates, plugins, etc.), as well as admin queries. It will return <code>true</code> if the current query is the main query, and <code>false</code> if not.

==Usage==

<pre>&lt;?php
if ( is_main_query() ) {
    // do stuff
}
</pre>

==Under the Hood==

This function does not accept any parameters. Instead, it automatically compares the <tt>$wp_query</tt> object (i.e., the "current query") with the <tt>$wp_the_query</tt> object (the "main query")

This function is an alias for the method <tt>WP_Query::is_main_query()</tt>. In filter or action hook callbacks that are passed the WP_Query object, such as '[[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/pre_get_posts|pre_get_posts]]', it is circular to call this function. Instead, directly call the passed object's method. For example, if your filter callback assigns the passed WP_Query object to <tt>$query</tt>, you would call the method like so:
%%%$query->is_main_query()%%%
See the [[Function_Reference/is_main_query#Examples|example]] below for usage in a conditional if statement.

==Return Values==

; <tt>(boolean)</tt> : True on success, false on failure.

==Examples==

<pre>
add_action( 'pre_get_posts', 'foo_modify_query_exclude_category' );
function foo_modify_query_exclude_category( $query ) {
    if ( ! is_admin() && $query->is_main_query() && ! $query->get( 'cat' ) )
        $query->set( 'cat', '-5' );
}
</pre>

==Change Log==

Since: 3.3

== Source File ==
<tt>is_main_query()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/query.php|tags/{{CurrentVersion}}|719}}, starting line 719.

<tt>WP_Query::is_main_query()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/query.php|tags/{{CurrentVersion}}|3816}}, starting line 3816.

==Related==
{{Query Tags}}

===Conditional Tags===
{{Conditional Tags}}

[[Category:Functions]]
-->