{{#dotorgredirect: https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/is_page_template/}}

{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/is_page_template}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/is_page_template}}
}}

==Description==
This [[Conditional Tags|Conditional Tag]] allows you to determine if you are in any page template. Optionally checks if a specific [[Page_Templates|Page Template]] is being used in a [[Pages|Page]]. This is a boolean function, meaning it returns either TRUE or FALSE. This tag must be used BEFORE [[The Loop]] and does not work inside The Loop (see [[#Notes|Notes]] below).

==Usage==
%%%<?php is_page_template( $template ); ?>%%%

==Parameters==
{{Parameter|$template|string&#124;array|The specific template name or array of templates to match.|optional}}

==Return Values==
; <tt>(boolean)</tt> : True on success, false on failure.

==Examples==
Is [[Page_Templates|Page Template]] 'about' being used? Note that unlike with other conditionals, if you want to specify a particular Page Template, you need to use the filename, such as about.php or my_page_template.php.

<pre>
if ( is_page_template( 'about.php' ) ) {
	// Returns true when 'about.php' is being used.
} else {
	// Returns false when 'about.php' is not being used.
}
</pre>

==Notes==
===Page template in subdirectory ===
If the page template is located in a subdirectory of the theme (since WP 3.4), prepend the folder name and a slash to the template filename, e.g.:
<pre>
is_page_template( 'templates/about.php' );
</pre>
===Cannot Be Used Inside The Loop===
Due to certain global variables being overwritten during The Loop <code>is_page_template()</code> will not work. In order to use it after The Loop you must call [[Function_Reference/wp_reset_query|wp_reset_query()]] after The Loop.

====Alternative====
Since the page template slug is stored inside the <tt>post_meta</tt> for any post that has been assigned to a page template, it is possible to directly query the <tt>post_meta</tt> to see whether any given page has been assigned a page template. This is the method that <tt>is_page_template()</tt> uses internally.

The function [[Function_Reference/get_page_template_slug|get_page_template_slug( $post_id )]] will return the slug of the currently assigned page template (or an empty string if no template has been assigned - or <tt>false</tt> if the <tt>$post_id</tt> does not correspond to an actual <tt>page</tt>). You can easily use this anywhere (in The Loop, or outside) to determine whether any page has been assigned a page template.

<pre>
<?php 
  // in the loop:
  if ( get_page_template_slug( get_the_ID() ) ){
     // Yep, this page has a page template
  }

  // anywhere:
  if ( get_page_template_slug( $some_post_ID ) ){
     // Uh-huh.
  }
?>
</pre> 

* See also [[Function_Reference/is_page|is_page()]]

==Change Log==
Since: 2.5.0

==Source File==
<!-- Need links to current source code files -->
<tt>is_page_template()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/post-template.php}}.

==Related==

{{Conditional Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Conditional Tags]]
[[Category:Functions]]