{{#dotorgredirect: https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/is_single/}}

{{Languages|
{{en|Function_Reference/is_single}}
{{ru|Справочник_по_функциям/is single}}
{{es|Function_Reference/is_single}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/is single}}
{{ko|Function_Reference/is_single}}
{{tr|Fonksiyon_Listesi/is_single}}
}}
==Description==
This [[Conditional Tags|conditional tag]] checks if a single post of any [[Post Types|post type]] (except [[Using Image and File Attachments|attachment]] and [[Pages|page]] post types) is being displayed. If the <tt>$post</tt> parameter is specified, the function will additionally check if the [[Glossary#Query|query]] is for one of the posts specified. To check for all the post types, use the <tt>[[Function Reference/is singular|is_singular()]]</tt> function.

==Usage==
%%%<?php is_single($post); ?>%%%

==Parameters==
{{Parameter|$post|mixed|Post ID, Post Title, Post Slug, or array of posts (WP 2.5+) |optional}}

==Return Values==
{{Return||boolean|''True'' on success, ''false'' on failure}}.

==Examples==
 is_single();
 // When any single Post page is being displayed.
 
 is_single('17');
 // When Post 17 (ID) is being displayed.
 
 is_single(17);
 // When Post 17 (ID) is being displayed. Integer parameter also works

 is_single('Irish Stew');
 // When the Post with ''post_title'' of "Irish Stew" is being displayed.
 
 is_single('beef-stew');
 // When the Post with ''post_name'' (slug) of "beef-stew" is being displayed.
 
 is_single(array(17,'beef-stew','Irish Stew'));
 // Returns true when the single post being displayed is either post ID 17, or the ''post_name'' is "beef-stew", or the ''post_title'' is "Irish Stew".  Note: the array ability was added at [[Version 2.5]].

==Notes==
* See Also: [[Function Reference/is singular|is_singular()]]
* Although <tt>is_single()</tt> will usually return <tt>true</tt> for attachments, this behavior should not be relied upon. It is possible for <tt>$is_page</tt> and <tt>$is_attachment</tt> to be <tt>true</tt> at the same time, and in that case <tt>$is_single</tt> will be <tt>false</tt>. For this reason, you should use <tt>[[Function_Reference/is_attachment | is_attachment()]] || is_single()</tt> if you want to include attachments, or use <tt>[[Function_Reference/is_singular | is_singular()]]</tt> if you want to include pages too. See [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/14034 ticket #14034] for more information.

==Change Log==
Since: 1.5.0

==Source File==
<!-- Need links to current source code files -->
<tt>is_single()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/query.php}}.

==Related==

{{Conditional Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Conditional Tags]]
[[Category:Functions]]