{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/is_tax}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/is_tax}}
}}

==Description==
This [[Conditional Tags|Conditional Tag]] checks if a custom taxonomy archive page is being displayed. This is a boolean function, meaning it returns either TRUE or FALSE.

If the <tt>$taxonomy</tt> parameter is specified, this function will additionally check if the query is for that specific taxonomy.

Note that <tt>is_tax()</tt> returns false on category archives and tag archives. You should use <tt>[[Function Reference/is_category|is_category()]]</tt> and <tt>[[Function Reference/is_tag|is_tag()]]</tt> respectively when checking for category and tag archives.

To check for a taxonomy term on a specific post, use <tt>[[Function Reference/has_term|has_term()]]</tt>

==Usage==
%%%<?php is_tax( $taxonomy, $term ); ?>%%%

==Parameters==
{{Parameter|$taxonomy|string, array|Taxonomy slug or slugs|optional}}
{{Parameter|$term|int, array, string|A single or array of, The term's ID, Name or Slug|optional}}

==Return Values==
; <tt>(boolean)</tt> : True on success, false on failure.

==Examples==

 is_tax();
 // When any custom taxonomy archive page is being displayed.
 
 is_tax( 'channel' );
 // When the archive page for taxonomy of 'channel' is being displayed.
 
 is_tax( 'channel', 'BBC1' );
 // When the archive page for taxonomy of 'channel' is being displayed and the 'channel' taxonomy term is 'BBC1'.

===Post Formats===
The taxonomy slug for Post Formats differs from the Post Format slug. The <tt>[[Function Reference/register_taxonomy|register_taxonomy()]]</tt> function appends a <tt>post-format-</tt> base to the Post Format slug. So, e.g. while the "Aside" Post Format type has a slug of <tt>aside</tt>, the <tt>post_format</tt> taxonomy term "Aside" has a slug of <tt>post-format-aside</tt>.

 is_tax( 'post_format' );
 // When the archive page for any Post Format term is being displayed.
 
 is_tax( 'post_format', 'post-format-aside' );
 // When the archive page for Post Format type 'aside' is being displayed.

==Notes==
* See also <tt>[[Function Reference/register_taxonomy|register_taxonomy()]]</tt> and [[Category Templates]].

==Source File==
<tt>is_tax()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/query.php}}.

==Related==

{{Conditional Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Conditional Tags]]
[[Category:Functions]]