{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/is tag}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/is tag}}
}}
==Description==
This [[Conditional Tags|Conditional Tag]] checks if a Tag archive page is being displayed. This is a boolean function, meaning it returns either TRUE or FALSE.

==Usage==
%%%<?php is_tag( $tag ); ?>%%%

==Parameters==
{{Parameter|$tag|mixed|Tag ID, name, slug, or array of id's, names, and slugs.|optional}}

==Return Values==
; <tt>(boolean)</tt> : True on success, false on failure.

==Examples==
 is_tag();
 // When any Tag archive page is being displayed.
 
 is_tag( '30' );
 // When the archive page for Tag 30 is being displayed.
 
 is_tag( 'extreme' );
 // When the archive page for tag with the Slug of 'extreme' is being displayed.
 
 is_tag( 'mild' );
 // When the archive page for tag with the Name of 'mild' is being displayed.
 
 is_tag( array( 30, 'mild', 'extreme' ) );
 // Returns true when the tag of posts being displayed is either term_ID 30, or ''slug'' "extreme", or ''name'' "mild". Note: the array ability was added at [[Version 3.7]].

Using if condition:
<pre>
if ( is_tag() ) {
    // Display list of tags
} else {
   // Display list of categories
}
</pre>

==Notes==
* See also <tt>[[Function Reference/is_archive|is_archive()]]</tt> and [[Tag Templates]].

==Change Log==
* Since: [[Version 2.3|2.3.0]]
* [[Version 3.7|3.7.0]]: Make <tt>$tag</tt> parameter recieve tag ID, name, slug, or array of tag IDs, names, and slugs.

==Source File==
<!-- Need links to current source code files -->
<tt>is_tag()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/query.php}}.

==Related==

{{Tag Tags}}

{{Conditional Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Conditional Tags]]
[[Category:Functions]]