{{#dotorgredirect:https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/like_escape/}}

{{Deprecated|version=4.0}}
== Description ==

'''This function is deprecated as of WordPress 4.0. Please use [[Class Reference/wpdb/esc_like|$wpdb->esc_like()]] instead.'''

Sanitizes <tt>'''$string'''</tt> for use in a LIKE expression of an SQL query.

Note that the string still needs to be SQL escaped with <tt>esc_sql()</tt> if it is untrusted data. This needs to be done before using <tt>like_escape()</tt>, to avoid double-slashing the string.

== Usage ==

%%% <?php $like = like_escape( $string ); ?> %%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$string|string|The LIKE argument portion of the SQL query.}}

== Return Value ==

{{Return||string|Escaped value appropriate as a LIKE argument in a SQL query.}}

== Example ==
Try to match a suspicious link to links in comments marked as spam.
<pre>
// Parse a suspicious URL so we can just get the main parts.
$url = parse_url( $suspiciuos_link );

// Strip out "http://" and any url parameters.
if ( isset( $url['path'] ) ) {
	$link = $url['host'] . $url['path'];
} else {
	$link = $url['host'];
}

// First, escape the link for use in our SQL query.
$link = esc_sql( $link );

// We are using this in a LIKE statement, so escape it for that as well.
$link = like_escape( $link );

// Add wildcards, since we are searching within comment text.
$link = '%' . $link . '%';

global $wpdb;

// Search local spam for comments or author url containing this link.
$matching_comments = $wpdb->get_var(
	"
	SELECT COUNT(*)
	FROM $wpdb->comments 
	WHERE (comment_content LIKE '$link' OR comment_author_url LIKE '$link')
		AND comment_approved = 'spam' 
	"
);

echo $matching_comments . ' spam comments found with this link.';
</pre>

== Notes ==
Escapes % (percent) and _ (underscore) characters, as they have special meaning in LIKE arguments.
== Change Log ==

* Since: [[Version_2.5|2.5.0]]
* Deprecated: [[Version_4.0|4.0.0]]
**[http://make.wordpress.org/core/2014/06/20/like_escape-is-deprecated-in-wordpress-4-0/ like_escape() is Deprecated in WordPress 4.0 ]

== Source File ==

<tt>like_escape()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/formatting.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Esc Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]