{{#dotorgredirect:https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/link_pages/}}

{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/link_pages}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/link_pages}}
}}

{{Deprecated}}
== Description ==

Displays page-links for paginated posts (i.e. includes the <code>&lt;!--nextpage--&gt;</code> [[Write_Post_SubPanel#Quicktags | Quicktag]] one or more times). This tag must be within [[The_Loop]].

== Replace With ==

* [[Template_Tags/wp_link_pages|wp_link_pages()]]

== Usage ==

%%% <?php link_pages( $before, $after, $next_or_number, $nextpagelink, $previouspagelink, $pagelink, $more_file ); ?> %%%

== Parameters ==

; before : (''string'') Text to put before all the links. Defaults to <tt>'&lt;br /&gt;'</tt>.
; after : (''string'') Text to put after all the links. Defaults to <tt>'&lt;br /&gt;'</tt>.
; next_or_number : (''string'') Indicates whether page numbers should be used. Valid values are:
:* <tt>'number'</tt> (Default)
:* <tt>'next'</tt> (Valid in WordPress 1.5 or after)
; nextpagelink : (''string'') Text for link to next page. Defaults to <tt>'next page'</tt>. (Valid in WordPress 1.5 or after)
; previouspagelink: (''string'') Text for link to previous page. Defaults to <tt>'previous page'</tt>. (Valid in WordPress 1.5 or after)
; pagelink : (''string'') Format string for page numbers. <tt>'%'</tt> in the string will be replaced with the number, so <tt>'Page %'</tt> would generate "Page 1", "Page 2", etc. Defaults to <tt>'%'</tt>.
; more_file : (''string'') Page the links should point to. Defaults to the current page.

== Examples ==

===Default Usage===

Displays page-links by default with line breaks before and after, using ''next page'' and ''previous page'', listing them with page numbers as ''Page 1, Page 2'' and so on.

 <?php link_pages(); ?>

===Page-links in Paragraph Tags===

Displays page-links wrapped in paragraph tags.

 <?php link_pages('&lt;p&gt;', '&lt;/p&gt;', 'number', &#39;&#39;, &#39;&#39;, 'page %'); ?>

== Change Log ==

* Since: 0.71
* Deprecated: 2.1.0
* Replace By: [[Template_Tags/wp_link_pages|wp_link_pages()]]

== Related ==

{{Tag Post Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]