{{#dotorgredirect:https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/list_authors/}}

{{Deprecated}}
== Description ==

Displays a list of the authors on a blog, and if desired, other information such as a link to each author's [[Glossary#RSS|RSS]] feed.

== Replace With ==

* [[Template_Tags/wp_list_authors|wp_list_authors()]]

== Usage ==

%%% <?php list_authors( $optioncount, $exclude_admin, $show_fullname,
                        $hide_empty, $feed, $feed_image ); ?> %%%

== Parameters ==

; optioncount : (''boolean'') Display number of posts by each author. Options are:
:* <tt>TRUE</tt>
:* <tt>FALSE</tt> (Default) 
; exclude_admin : (''boolean'') Exclude the administrator account from authors list. Options are:
:* <tt>TRUE</tt> (Default)
:* <tt>FALSE</tt> 
; show_fullname : (''boolean'') Display the full (first and last) name of the authors. Options are:
:* <tt>TRUE</tt>
:* <tt>FALSE</tt> (Default) 
; hide_empty : (''boolean'') Do not display authors with 0 posts. Options are:
:* <tt>TRUE</tt> (Default)
:* <tt>FALSE</tt> 
; feed : (''string'') Text to display for a link to each author's RSS feed. Default is no text, and no feed displayed.
; feed_image : (''string'') Path/filename for a graphic. This acts as a link to each author's RSS feed, and overrides the '''feed''' parameter.

== Examples ==

=== Default Usage ===

Display the list of authors using default settings.

 <?php list_authors(); ?>

=== Authors with Number of Posts ===

This example causes the site's authors to display with the number of posts written by each author, excludes the admin author, and displays each author's full name (first and last name).

 <?php list_authors(TRUE, TRUE, TRUE); ?>

<div style="border:1px solid blue; width:50%; padding:10px">Harriett Smith (42)<br />
Sally Smith (29)<br />
Andrew Anderson (48)</div>

=== Full Name and Authors With No Posts Usage ===

Displays the site's authors without displaying the number of posts, does not exclude the admin, shows the full name of the authors, and does not hide authors with no posts. It does not display the RSS feed or image.

 <?php list_authors(FALSE, FALSE, TRUE, FALSE); ?>

== Change Log ==

* Since: 1.2.1
* Deprecated: ?
* Replace By: [[Template_Tags/wp_list_authors|wp_list_authors()]]

== Related ==

{{Author Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]