{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/load_plugin_textdomain}}
{{de|Funktionsreferenz/load_plugin_textdomain}}
{{it|Riferimento funzioni/load_plugin_textdomain}}
}}

== Description ==

Loads the plugin's translated strings.

If the path is not given then it will be the root of the plugin directory. The .mo file should be named based on the domain followed by a dash, and then the locale exactly. For example, the locale for German is 'de_DE', and the locale for Danish is 'da_DK'. If your plugin's text domain is "my-plugin" the Danish .mo and.po files should be named "my-plugin-da_DK.mo" and  "my-plugin-da_DK.po" Call this function in your plugin as early as the <tt>init</tt> [[Plugin_API#Actions|action]].

If you call <tt>load_plugin_textdomain</tt> multiple times for the same domain, the translations will be merged. If both sets have the same string, the translation from the original value will be taken.

== Usage ==

%%%<?php load_plugin_textdomain( $domain, $abs_rel_path__DEPRECATED, $plugin_rel_path ) ?>%%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$domain|string|Unique identifier for retrieving translated strings.}}
{{Parameter|$abs_rel_path (Deprecated)|string|Relative path to <tt>ABSPATH</tt> of a folder, where the .mo file resides. '''Deprecated''', but still functional until 2.7|optional|false}}
{{Parameter|$plugin_rel_path|string|Relative path to <tt>WP_PLUGIN_DIR</tt>. This is the preferred argument to use. It takes precedence over <tt>$abs_rel_path</tt>|optional|false}}

== Return Values ==

; boolean : Returns true if the override_load_textdomain filter returns true or the language file was loaded successfully. Returns false, if the language file could not be loaded (it is not readable or the mo file reader can not understand it).

== Examples ==
This example assumes that it is placed in the main plugin file, or at least a file in the plugin root. If it's not, you'll need to adjust the [https://codex.wordpress.org/Function_Reference/plugin_dir_path plugin_dir_path()] call accordingly.

<pre>/**
 * Load plugin textdomain.
 *
 * @since 1.0.0
 */
function myplugin_load_textdomain() {
  load_plugin_textdomain( 'my-plugin', false, basename( dirname( __FILE__ ) ) . '/languages' ); 
}

add_action( 'init', 'myplugin_load_textdomain' );
</pre>

== Notes ==

* <i>l10n</i> is an abbreviation for <i>localization</i>.
* <i>l10n</i> is derived from the 10 letters between the "l" and the "n" of <i>localization</i>.

== Change Log ==

* Since: [[Version 1.5|1.5.0]]
* [[Version 2.7|2.7.0]]: '<tt>$abs_rel_path</tt>' parameter was deprecated.

== Source File ==

<tt>load_plugin_textdomain()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/l10n.php}}.

== Resources ==

* [http://ottopress.com/2013/language-packs-101-prepwork/ Language packs 101 prepwork]
* [http://premium.wpmudev.org/blog/localize-a-wordpress-plugin-and-make-it-translation-ready/ Localize a WordPress plugin and make it translation ready]
* [http://www.sitepoint.com/wordpress-i18n-make-your-plugin-translation-ready/ WordPress i18n: Make Your Plugin Translation Ready]

== Related ==
{{Localization}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]
[[Category:New_page_created]]