{{Languages|
{{en|Function_Reference/media_handle_upload}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/media_handle_upload}}
}}
== Description ==

This function handles the file upload POST request itself, and creates the attachment post in the database.

== Usage ==

%%%<?php media_handle_upload( $file_id, $post_id, $post_data, $overrides ); ?>%%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$file_id|string|Index into the [http://www.php.net/manual/en/reserved.variables.files.php $_FILES] array of the upload|required}}

{{Parameter|$post_id|int|The post ID the media is associated with. If you don't want this media attached to a specific post, you can pass 0.|required}}

{{Parameter|$post_data|array|allows you to overwrite some of the attachment|optional|array()}}

{{Parameter|$overrides|array|allows you to override the <tt>[[Function_Reference/wp_handle_upload | wp_handle_upload()]]</tt> behavior|optional|array( 'test_form' &#61;> false )}}

== Return Values ==

{{Return||int&#124;WP_Error|The ID of the attachment, or a <tt>[[Class_Reference/WP_Error | WP_Error]]</tt> if the upload failed.}}

== Examples ==

Upload an attachment from a form on the front end of the site.

The upload form might look like this:

<pre>
<form id="featured_upload" method="post" action="#" enctype="multipart/form-data">
	<input type="file" name="my_image_upload" id="my_image_upload"  multiple="false" />
	<input type="hidden" name="post_id" id="post_id" value="55" />
	<?php wp_nonce_field( 'my_image_upload', 'my_image_upload_nonce' ); ?>
	<input id="submit_my_image_upload" name="submit_my_image_upload" type="submit" value="Upload" />
</form>
</pre>

The code to save the attachment:

<pre>
<?php

// Check that the nonce is valid, and the user can edit this post.
if ( 
	isset( $_POST['my_image_upload_nonce'], $_POST['post_id'] ) 
	&& wp_verify_nonce( $_POST['my_image_upload_nonce'], 'my_image_upload' )
	&& current_user_can( 'edit_post', $_POST['post_id'] )
) {
	// The nonce was valid and the user has the capabilities, it is safe to continue.

	// These files need to be included as dependencies when on the front end.
	require_once( ABSPATH . 'wp-admin/includes/image.php' );
	require_once( ABSPATH . 'wp-admin/includes/file.php' );
	require_once( ABSPATH . 'wp-admin/includes/media.php' );
	
	// Let WordPress handle the upload.
	// Remember, 'my_image_upload' is the name of our file input in our form above.
	$attachment_id = media_handle_upload( 'my_image_upload', $_POST['post_id'] );
	
	if ( is_wp_error( $attachment_id ) ) {
		// There was an error uploading the image.
	} else {
		// The image was uploaded successfully!
	}

} else {

	// The security check failed, maybe show the user an error.
}
</pre>

== Change Log ==

Since: [[Version 2.5|2.5]]

== Source File ==

<tt>media_handle_upload()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-admin/includes/media.php}}

== Related ==

{{Upload Tags}}

{{Attachment Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]