{{Languages|
{{en|Template Tags/paginate comments links}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/paginate comments links}}
{{zh-cn|paginate_comments_links}}
}}

== Description ==
Create pagination links for the comments on the current post.

Basically this is a macro to [[Function_Reference/paginate_links | paginate_links()]] which sets the functional options of <tt>paginate_links()</tt> to make it work for comments. But you may use all the parameters of <tt>paginate_links()</tt> to style the output of <tt>paginate_comments_links()</tt>.

== Usage ==
%%%<?php paginate_comments_links( $args ) ?>%%%

== Parameters ==
{{Parameter|$args|string&#124;array|Optional args. See [[Function_Reference/paginate_links|paginate_links()]].|optional|array}}

=== Defaults ===
<pre>
<?php $args = array(
	'base' => add_query_arg( 'cpage', '%#%' ),
	'format' => '',
	'total' => $max_page,
	'current' => $page,
	'echo' => true,
	'add_fragment' => '#comments'
					
);?></pre>

''Note:'' Arguments passed in are merged to the defaults, via [[Function_Reference/wp_parse_args|wp_parse_args]].<br />
These arguments are mostly to make the call of <tt>paginate_links()</tt> work, so be careful if you change them.

== Return Values ==
; (string) : Markup for pagination links.

== Examples ==
=== Enhanced Comment Display ===
In version 2.7 WordPress added the [[Migrating Plugins and Themes to 2.7/Enhanced Comment Display | Enhanced Comment Display]] system to make comments.php files much simpler to write and edit. One is the ability to easily break comments into pages so that you don't end up with hundreds of comments all loading on every pageview. 

You will need to set up the options in SETTINGS > DISCUSSION for paging to work.

The easiest way to do so is with the following function, which prints out a link to the next and previous comment pages, as well as a numbered list of all the comment pages. 

 paginate_comments_links($args);

It accepts a query-style list of arguments similar to <tt>get_posts()</tt> or <tt>get_terms()</tt>.

If you want more control, you can also use the simpler next and previous functions: 
 next_comments_link($label="", $max_page = 0)
and
 previous_comments_link($label="")

=== Custom Prev-/Next-links ===
To modify the Prev- and Next-links, you can use the options 'prev_text' and 'next_text'. These are provided by the function [[Function_Reference/paginate_links | paginate_links()]].
 paginate_comments_links('prev_text=back&next_text=forward')
If you want to use HTML entities in your 'prev_text' or 'next_text', you will have to use the array-based syntax, as it is descriped on the [[Function_Reference/wp_parse_args | wp_parse_args()]]-page:
 paginate_comments_links( array('prev_text' => '&amp;laquo;', 'next_text' => '&amp;raquo;') )

<!-- Need creative examples. Feel free to link to external examples. -->

== Notes ==
* See [[Function_Reference/paginate_links|<tt>paginate_links()</tt>]]
* Uses global: (<tt>object</tt>) [[Class_Reference/WP_Query|<tt>$wp_query</tt>]]
* Uses global: (<tt>object</tt>) <tt>$wp_rewrite</tt>

== Change Log ==
Since: 2.7.0

== Source File ==
<!-- Need links to current source code files -->
<tt>paginate_comments_links()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/link-template.php}}.

== Related ==
<!--
    To Do:
    Need to find related functions.
    Need to create groups of functions and create templates to add them to a page quickly.
    Some functions may be related to many groups of functions.
-->

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]