{{Languages|
{{en|Function_Reference/register_post_status}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/register_post_status}}
}}
== Description ==

Register a [[Post Status|post status]].

A simple function for creating or modifying a post status based on the parameters given. The function will accept two parameters; a string for the post status name and an array of arguments.

This function should not be called before the <tt>[[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/init | 'init']]</tt> action.

<div style="margin:10px; border:1px solid blue; padding:5px">
'''NOTICE:'''<br />
This function does NOT add the registered post status to the admin panel.  This functionality is pending future development.  Please refer to [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/12706 Trac Ticket #12706].
Consider the action hook [http://core.trac.wordpress.org/browser/tags/3.5.1/wp-admin/includes/meta-boxes.php#L183 post_submitbox_misc_actions] for adding this parameter.
</div>

== Usage ==

%%%<?php register_post_status( $post_status, $args ); ?>%%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$post_status|string|Name of the post status. Maximum length is 20 characters.|required}}

{{Parameter|$args|array&#124;string|An array of arguments for this post status.|optional}}

=== Arguments ===

{{Parameter|label|string|A descriptive name for the post status marked for translation.|optional|$post_status}}

{{Parameter|public|bool|Whether posts of this status should be shown in the front end of the site.|optional|false}}

{{Parameter|internal|bool|Whether the status is for internal use only.|optional|false}}

{{Parameter|private|bool|Whether the posts of this status should be accessible by their urls.|optional|false}}

'''Note: ''' If the <tt>'public'</tt>,<tt>'internal'</tt>,<tt>'protected'</tt>, and <tt>'private'</tt> parameters are not explicitly set (<tt>null</tt>), then <tt>'internal'</tt> will default to <tt>true</tt>.

{{Parameter|protected|bool|Whether the posts of this status should be protected.|optional|false}}

'''Note: ''' Set <tt>'protected'</tt> to <tt>true</tt> in order to list posts of this status under the "All" edit listing when <tt>'show_in_admin_all_list'</tt> is explicitly set to <tt>true</tt> and <tt>'public'</tt> is set to <tt>false</tt> or is not explicitly set (null).

{{Parameter|exclude_from_search|bool|Whether to exclude posts with this post status from search results.|optional|false}}

'''Note: ''' Defaults to bool of <tt>'internal'</tt> parameter.

{{Parameter|show_in_admin_all_list|bool|Whether to include posts in the edit listing for their post type.|optional|true}}

'''Note: ''' Defaults to opposite bool of <tt>'internal'</tt> parameter.

{{Parameter|show_in_admin_status_list|bool|Show in the list of statuses with post counts at the top of the edit listings, e.g. All (12) , Published (9) , My Custom Status (2) ...|optional|false}}

'''Note: ''' Defaults to opposite bool of <tt>'internal'</tt> parameter.

{{Parameter|label_count|array|The text to display on the admin screen (or you won't see your status count). Array should be in the same format as <tt>[[Function_Reference/_n_noop | _n_noop()]]</tt> output. |optional}}

== Example ==

An example of registering a post status called "Unread":
<pre>
function my_custom_post_status(){
	register_post_status( 'unread', array(
		'label'                     => _x( 'Unread', 'post' ),
		'public'                    => true,
		'exclude_from_search'       => false,
		'show_in_admin_all_list'    => true,
		'show_in_admin_status_list' => true,
		'post_type'                 => array( 'post', 'movie' ),
		'label_count'               => _n_noop( 'Unread <span class="count">(%s)</span>', 'Unread <span class="count">(%s)</span>' ),
	) );
}
add_action( 'init', 'my_custom_post_status' );
</pre>

== Change Log ==

* Since: [[Version 3.0|3.0]]

== Source File ==

<tt>register_post_status()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/post.php}}

== Resources ==

* [http://generatewp.com/post-status/ WordPress Post Status Generator]
* [https://www.nimbusthemes.com/register-post-status-wordpress-snippet-generator/ Register Post Status – WordPress Code Snippet Generator]
* [https://wordpress.org/plugins/custom-post-status/ Custom Post Status Plugin]

== Related ==

[[Category:Functions]]

[[Category:New_page_created]]