{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/remove filter}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/remove_filter}}
}}

== Description ==

This function removes a function attached to a specified filter hook. This method can be used to remove default functions attached to a specific filter hook and possibly replace them with a substitute. See also [[Function Reference/remove action|remove_action()]], [[Function Reference/add filter|add_filter()]] and [[Function Reference/add action|add_action()]].

'''''Important:''' To remove a hook, the <tt>$function_to_remove</tt> and <tt>$priority</tt> arguments must match when the hook was added. This goes for both filters and actions. No warning will be given on removal failure.''

== Usage ==
%%%<?php remove_filter( $tag, $function_to_remove, $priority ); ?>%%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$tag|string|The action hook to which the function to be removed is hooked.}}
{{Parameter|$function_to_remove|callback|The callback for the function which should be removed.}}
{{Parameter|$priority|int|The priority of the function (as defined when the function was originally hooked).|optional|10}}

== Return ==

; (''boolean'') : Whether the function is removed.
:* <tt>True</tt> - The function was successfully removed.
:* <tt>False</tt> - The function could not be removed.

== Example ==

<pre>
remove_filter( 'the_content', 'wpautop' );
</pre>

<pre>
foreach ( array( 'the_content', 'the_title', 'comment_text' ) as $hook )
    remove_filter( $hook, 'capital_P_dangit' );
</pre>

If a filter has been added from within a class, for example by a plugin, removing it will require accessing the class variable.

<pre>
global $my_class;
remove_filter( 'the_content', array($my_class, 'class_filter_function') );
</pre>
It is also worth noting that you may need to prioritise the removal of the filter to a hook that occurs after the filter is added. You cannot successfully remove the filter before it has been added.

== Notes ==
When using filters passed with objects, you most often need to pass the exact same object back to the remove filter call, not just another instance of that object.(read _wp_filter_build_unique_id() for the gory details)

== Change Log ==

* Since: 1.2.0

== Source File ==

<tt>remove_filter()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/plugin.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Filter Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]