== Description ==
Sanitizes title or use fallback title. 

Specifically, [[wikipedia:HTML|HTML]] and PHP tags are stripped, and (in a 'save' context) [[Function Reference/remove accents|accents are removed]] (accented characters are replaced with non-accented equivalents). Further filtering can be added via the plugin API by hooking the <tt>[[Plugin API/Filter Reference/sanitize_title|sanitize_title]]</tt> filter. If <code>$title</code> is empty and <code>$fallback_title</code> is set, the latter will be used. 

<em>Despite the name of this function, the returned value is intended to be suitable for use in a URL, not as a human-readable title.</em>

== Usage ==
%%%<?php sanitize_title( $title, $fallback_title, $context ) ?>%%%

== Parameters ==
{{Parameter|$title|string|The string to be sanitized.}}
{{Parameter|$fallback_title|string|A title to use if <code>$title</code> is empty.|optional|&#39;&#39;}}
{{Parameter|$context|string|The operation for which the string is sanitized.|optional|&#39;save&#39;}}

== Return Values ==
; (string) : The sanitized string.

== Examples ==
=== WordPress Titles ===
To create the file name portion of a URL the same way that WordPress does use this:
<pre><?php
  $new_url = sanitize_title('This Long Title is what My Post or Page might be');
  echo $new_url;
?></pre>
It should return a formatted value, the output would be this:
%%%this-long-title-is-what-my-post-or-page-might-be%%%
<!-- Need creative examples. Feel free to link to external examples. -->

== Notes ==
The 'save' context is used most often when saving a value in the database, but is used for other purposes as well. The 'query' context is used by [[Function Reference/sanitize_title_for_query|sanitize_title_for_query()]] when the value is going to be used in the <code>WHERE</code> clause of a query.

== Change Log ==
* Since: [[Version 1.0|1.0.0]]
* Originally defined in {{Trac|wp-includes/functions-formatting.php|tags/1.5|205}}
* File renamed to {{Trac|wp-includes/formatting.php|tags/2.1|316}} in [[Version 2.1|2.1]]
* <code>$context</code> parameter added in [[Version 3.1|3.1]]

== Source File ==
<!-- Need links to current source code files -->
<code>sanitize_title()</code> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/formatting.php}}.

== Related ==

=== Functions ===
{{sanitize functions|sanitize_title()}}

=== Filters ===

{{sanitize filters|sanitize_title}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]