{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/shortcode atts}}
{{it|Riferimento funzioni/shortcode atts}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/shortcode atts}}
}}
== Description ==

Combines user [[Shortcode API|shortcode]] attributes with known attributes and fills in defaults when needed. The result will contain every key from the known attributes, merged with values from shortcode attributes.

== Usage ==

%%%<?php shortcode_atts( $pairs, $atts, $shortcode ); ?>%%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$pairs|array|Entire list of supported attributes and their defaults}}
{{Parameter|$atts|array|User defined attributes in shortcode tag}}
{{Parameter|$shortcode|string|Shortcode name to be used by the shortcode_atts_{$shortcode} filter. If this is present, it makes a "shortcode_atts_$shortcode" filter available for other code to filter the attributes. It should always be included for maximum compatibility, however it is an optional variable. |optional}}

== Return Values ==

{{Return||array|Combined and filtered attribute list.}}

== Examples ==
 function bartag_func( $atts ) {
 	$atts = shortcode_atts(
 		array(
 			'foo' => 'no foo',
 			'bar' => 'default bar',
 		), $atts, 'bartag' );
 
 	return 'bartag: ' . $atts['foo'] . ' ' . $atts['bar'];
 }
 add_shortcode( 'bartag', 'bartag_func' );

<i>[bartag foo="koala" bar="bears"]</i> outputs the following: <br />
<b>bartag: koala bears</b>

<i>[bartag foo="koala"]</i> outputs the following: <br />
<b>bartag: koala default bar</b>

This creates a "[bartag]" shortcode that supports two attributes: [bartag foo="something" bar="something else"]. Both attributes are optional and will take on default options if they are not provided.

== Notes ==

The pairs should be considered to be all of the attributes which are supported by the caller and given as a list. The returned attributes will only contain the attributes in the $pairs list.

If the $atts list has unsupported attributes, then they will be ignored and removed from the final returned list.

== Change Log ==

* [[Version_3.6|3.6]]: The function now passes the <tt>$atts</tt> through the <tt>[[Plugin_API/Filter_Reference/shortcode_atts_(shortcode) | 'shortcode_atts_{$shortcode}']]</tt> filter, when the <tt>$shortcode</tt> parameter is supplied.
* Since: [[Version_2.5|2.5]]

== Source File ==

<tt>shortcode_atts()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/shortcodes.php}}.

== Resources ==

* [https://generatewp.com/shortcodes/ WordPress Shortcodes Generator]

== Related ==

[http://codex.wordpress.org/Function_Reference/wp_parse_args wp_parse_args()]

{{Shortcode Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]
[[Category:New_page_created]]