{{Languages|
{{en|Function_Reference/submit_button}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/submit_button}}
}}

== Description ==
Echos a submit button, with provided text and appropriate class.

'''Note:''' This function is only available from the administration panels. It cannot be used on the front end of the site.

== Usage ==
%%%<?php submit_button( $text, $type, $name, $wrap, $other_attributes ); ?>%%%

== Parameters ==
{{Parameter|$text|string|The text of the button|optional|Save Changes}}
{{Parameter|$type|string&#124;array|The type of button. Common values: primary, secondary, delete.|optional|primary}}
: Note: <tt>$type</tt> can be a single value, or a space separated list of values, or an array of values. The values determine the HTML classes of the button.
:* If <tt>$type</tt> is 'delete', the classes are 'button-secondary delete'.
:* Otherwise the first class is 'button', followed by any of these in order of appearance:
:** type value 'primary' makes class 'button-primary'
:** type value 'small' makes class 'button-small'
:** type value 'large' makes class 'button-large'
:** type value 'secondary' or 'button-secondary' is ignored (the 'button' class has the styling)
:** any other type value 'foo' makes the class 'foo'
: For example, the default <tt>$type</tt> 'primary' results in a button with HTML classes 'button button-primary'.
{{Parameter|$name|string|The [[wikipedia:HTML|HTML]] name of the submit button. If no id attribute is given in <tt>$other_attributes</tt> below, <tt>$name</tt> will be used as the button's id.|optional|submit}}
{{Parameter|$wrap|boolean|True if the output button should be wrapped in a paragraph tag, false otherwise. Defaults to true|optional|true}}
{{Parameter|$other_attributes|array&#124;string|Other attributes that should be output with the button, mapping attributes to their values, such as<tt> array( 'tabindex' &#61;> '1' )</tt>.|optional|NULL}}

== Return Values ==

This function does not return a value. The HTML for the button is output directly to the browser.

== Examples ==

=== Default Usage ===

 submit_button();

This will output the following HTML, which will display a button with the text, "Save Changes".

<pre>
<p class="submit"><input type="submit" name="submit" id="submit" class="button button-primary" value="Save Changes"  /></p>
</pre>

=== Using Custom Text ===

To output a button with custom text, use the first parameter like this:

 submit_button( 'Submit' );

=== Display a Secondary Button ===

WordPress styles secondary and primary buttons differently. Primary buttons are blue, and stand out more than secondary buttons, which are grey. By default, <tt>submit_button()</tt> outputs a primary button. To display a secondary button instead, set the <tt>$type</tt> parameter to <tt>'secondary'</tt>:

 submit_button( 'Reset', 'secondary' );

=== Display a Delete Button ===

By default, WordPress doesn't currently appear to have custom styling for delete buttons, but it does give them the <tt>'delete'</tt> HTML class. However, it's possible that could change in the future, so it's a good idea to specify the <tt>$type</tt> as <tt>'delete'</tt> when displaying a delete button:

 submit_button( 'Delete', 'delete' );

By default, delete buttons will be displayed as secondary buttons, not primary. If you want to display it as a primary button, you can do it like this:

 submit_button( 'Delete', 'delete button-primary' );

=== Using the $name Parameter ===

The <tt>$name</tt> parameter may be used if you want to set the HTML <tt>name</tt> attribute for the button. By default, this will be <tt>'submit'</tt>.

<pre>
submit_button( 'Save Settings', 'primary', 'wpdocs-save-settings' );
</pre>

By default, the <tt>$name</tt> is also used to fill out the button's <tt>id</tt> attribute. To change this, you can pass an <tt>id</tt> via the <tt>$other_attributes</tt> parameter:

<pre>
$other_attributes = array( 'id' => 'wpdocs-button-id' );

submit_button( 'Save Settings', 'primary', 'wpdocs-save-settings', true, $other_attributes );
</pre>

=== Using the $wrap Parameter ===

The <tt>$wrap</tt> parameter controls whether the button is wrapped in a paragraph tag, which it is by default. This can be a help or a hindrance depending on where an how you wish to display the button. To turn this behavior off, pass <tt>false</tt> for the fourth parameter:

 submit_button( 'Submit', 'primary', 'submit-form', false );

=== Specifying Other HTML Attributes ===

You can add any HTML attributes you chose to your button using the <tt>$other_attributes</tt> parameter. For example:

<pre>
$other_attributes = array( 'tabindex' => '1' );

submit_button( 'Go!', 'secondary', '', true, $other_attributes );
</pre>

== Notes ==

* Uses the related function <tt>[[Function_Reference/get_submit_button|get_submit_button()]]</tt>, which returns the button as a string instead of echoing it. It has a different default <tt>$type</tt>, <tt>'primary large'</tt>, resulting in the HTML classes <tt>'button button-primary button-large'</tt>.
* This function cannot be used on the front end of the site, it is only available when loading the administration panels.

== Change Log ==
Since: [[Version 3.1|3.1]]

== Source File ==
<tt>submit_button()</tt> is located in {{Trac|/wp-admin/includes/template.php}}.

== Related ==

<tt>[[Function_Reference/get_submit_button | get_submit_button()]]</tt>

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]