== Description ==

This [[Conditional Tags|Conditional Tag]] Check if a term is an ancestor of another term. This is a boolean function, meaning it returns either TRUE or FALSE.

== Usage ==

%%% <?php term_is_ancestor_of( $term1, $term2, $taxonomy ); ?> %%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$term1|int/object|ID or object to check if this is the parent term.}}
{{Parameter|$term2|int/object|The child term.}}
{{Parameter|$taxonomy|string|Taxonomy name that $term1 and $term2 belong to.}}

== Return Values ==

; <tt>(boolean)</tt> : True if term1 is a term of term2, False if not.

== Examples ==

This example, placed in a theme's taxonomy.php, uses [[Conditional Tags]] to show different content depending on the term being displayed.  This is helpful when it is necessary to include something for any child term of a given term, instead of using ''taxonomy-$taxonomy-$slug.php'' method where you'd have to create ''taxonomy-$taxonomy-$slug.php'' files for each and every term.

The code snip below checks to see if the term called 'Music' (ID 4) for the taxonmy 'Sound' is being processed, and if so, presents a [[Function Reference/wp_nav_menu|wp_nav_menu]] for the Music archive page, and any subterms of Music (e.g. jazz, classical.)

<pre>
<?php 
  // if the taxonomy is sound and the term is music 
  if (term_is_ancestor_of(4, $term, 'sound') or is_term(4, 'sound')):  ?>
  <div id="music_subnav_menu" class="subnav_menu">
    <?php wp_nav_menu( array('menu' => 'Music' )); ?>
  </div>
<? endif; ?>
</pre>

== Notes ==

* The function evaluates if the second term is a child of the first term.
* Any level of ancestry will return True.
* Arguments should be either integer or objects, If arguments are string representations of integers and not true integers '''term_is_ancestor_of''' will return False.

== Change Log ==

Since: 3.4.0

== Source File ==

<tt>term_is_ancestor_of()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/taxonomy.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Conditional Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Taxonomy:Conditional Tags]]
[[Taxonomy:Functions]]