{{#dotorgredirect: https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/the_content/}}

{{Languages|
{{en|Template Tags/the_content}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/the_content}}
}}

== Description ==

Displays the contents of the current post. This template tag must be within [[The_Loop]].

If the quicktag [[Writing Posts#Visual Versus HTML Editor|<tt><nowiki><!--more--></nowiki></tt>]] is used in a post to designate the "cut-off" point for the post to be excerpted, the_content() tag will only show the excerpt up to the <tt><nowiki><!--more--></nowiki></tt> quicktag point on non-single/non-[[Glossary#Permalink|permalink]] post pages.  By design, <tt>the_content()</tt> tag includes a parameter for formatting the <tt><nowiki><!--more--></nowiki></tt> content and look, which creates a link to "continue reading" the full post.

:'''Note about <tt><nowiki><!--more--></nowiki></tt>''' :
:* No whitespaces are allowed '''before''' the "more" in the <tt><nowiki><!--more--></nowiki></tt> quicktag. In other words <tt><nowiki><!-- more --></nowiki></tt> will ''not'' work!
:* ''The <tt><nowiki><!--more--></nowiki></tt> quicktag will not operate and is ignored in [[Templates]] where just one post is displayed, such as '''single.php'''.''
:* Read [[Customizing the Read More]] for more details.

== Usage ==

%%%<?php the_content( $more_link_text, $stripteaser ); ?>%%%

[[Template Tags/How to Pass Tag Parameters#Tags with PHP function-style parameters|How to pass parameters to tags with PHP function-style parameters]]

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$more_link_text|string|The link text to display for the "more" link.|optional|'(more...)'}}
{{Parameter|$stripteaser|boolean|Strip teaser content before the more text.|optional|false}}

== Examples ==

=== Designating the "More" Text ===

Displays the content of the post and uses "Read more..." for the more link text when the <tt><nowiki><!--more--></nowiki></tt> Quicktag is used.

 <?php the_content('Read more...'); ?>

=== Include Title in "More" ===

Similar to the above example, but thanks to [[Template Tags/the title|the_title()]] tag and the ''display'' parameter, it can show "Continue reading ''ACTUAL POST TITLE''" when the <tt><nowiki><!--more--></nowiki></tt> Quicktag is used.

 <?php the_content("Continue reading " . get_the_title()); ?>

=== Overriding Archive/Single Page Behavior ===

If the_content() isn't working as you desire (displaying the entire story when you only want the content above the <tt><nowiki><!--more--></nowiki></tt> Quicktag, for example) you can override the behavior with global $more.

 <?php 
 global $more;    // Declare global $more (before the loop).
 $more = 0;       // Set (inside the loop) to display content above the more tag.
 the_content("More...");
 ?>

if you need to display all of the content:

 <?php 
 global $more;    // Declare global $more (before the loop).
 $more = 1;       // Set (inside the loop) to display all content, including text below more.
 the_content();
 ?>

==Ignore the "More" on a Sticky Post==
This will ignore the more tag in a sticky post--meaning it will display the full content even if there is a <tt><nowiki><!--more--></nowiki></tt> in the content, but for all other posts it will display a more link.
  
<pre>
<?php
if (is_sticky()) {
  global $more;    // Declare global $more (before the loop).
  $more = 1;       // Set (inside the loop) to display all content, including text below more.
  the_content();
} else {
  global $more;
  $more = 0;
  the_content('Read the rest of this entry <nowiki>&raquo;</nowiki>');
}
?>
</pre>

== Alternative Usage ==

You may use [[Function Reference/get_the_content|get_the_content()]] to return the content value instead of outputting it directly.  Example:

 <?php $content = get_the_content(); ?>

'''Please note!''' [[Function Reference/get_the_content|get_the_content]] will return the unfiltered content. If you want to achieve the same output that [[Template Tags/the_content|the_content()]] returns, use the following code:

 <?php
 $content = apply_filters( 'the_content', get_the_content() );
 $content = str_replace( ']]>', ']]&amp;gt;', $content );
 ?>

== Changelog ==

Since: 0.71

==Source File==

<tt>the_content()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/post-template.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Tag Post Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]