{{Languages|
{{en|Template Tags/the_date}}
{{de|Template Tags/the_date}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/the_date}}
}}

== Description ==

Displays or returns the date of a post, or a set of posts if published on the same day. 

<div style="text-decoration:none; padding: 10px; margin: 10px 0px 5px; background-color: #f0f0f0; border: 1px solid darkslateblue">'''SPECIAL NOTE:''' When there are multiple posts on a page published under the SAME DAY, the_date() only displays the date for the first post (that is, the first instance of the_date()). To repeat the date for posts published under the same day, you should use the [[Template Tags|Template Tag]] [[Template Tags/the time|the_time()]] or [[Template Tags/get_the_date|get_the_date()]] (since [[Version 3.0|3.0]]) with a [[Formatting_Date_and_Time|date-specific format string]].<br />
Use <code><?php the_time( get_option( 'date_format' ) ); ?></code> to add the date set in the admin interface.</div>

This tag must be used within [[The Loop]].

== Usage ==

%%% <?php the_date( $format, $before, $after, $echo ); ?> %%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$format|string|The format for the date. Defaults to the date format configured in your WordPress options. See [[Formatting Date and Time]].|optional|F j, Y}}
{{Parameter|$before|string|Text to place before the date.|optional}}
{{Parameter|$after|string|Text to place after the date|optional}}
{{Parameter|$echo|boolean|Display the date (<tt>TRUE</tt>), or return the date to be used in PHP (<tt>FALSE</tt>).|optional|<tt>TRUE</tt>}}

== Return ==

(''string|null'') Null if displaying, string if retrieving.

== Examples ==

=== Default Usage ===

Displays the date using defaults.

 <?php the_date(); ?>

=== Date as Year, Month, Date in Heading ===

Displays the date using the <code>'2007-07-23'</code> format (ex: 2004-11-30), inside an &lt;h2&gt; tag.

 <?php the_date('Y-m-d', '&lt;h2&gt;', '&lt;/h2&gt;'); ?>

=== Date in Heading Using $my_date Variable===

Returns the date in the default format inside an &lt;h2&gt; tag and assigns it to the $my_date variable. The variable's value is then displayed with the PHP echo command.

 <?php $my_date = the_date(&#39;&#39;, &#39;&lt;h2&gt;&#39;, &#39;&lt;/h2&gt;&#39;, FALSE); echo $my_date; ?>

== Notes ==

* Affects the return value of the [[Function_Reference/is_new_day|is_new_day()]] function.

== Change Log ==
Since: 0.71

== Source File ==
<tt>the_date()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/general-template.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Date Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]