{{#dotorgredirect:https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/the_content_rss/}}

{{Deprecated|new_function=the_content_feed}}

== Description ==
Display the post content for the feed. 

For encoding the html or the <tt>$encode_html</tt> parameter, there are three possible values. '<tt>0</tt>' will make urls footnotes and use [[Function_Reference/make_url_footnote|<tt>make_url_footnote()</tt>]]. '<tt>1</tt>' will encode special characters and automatically display all of the content. The value of '<tt>2</tt>' will strip all HTML tags from the content. 

Also note that you cannot set the amount of words and not set the html encoding. If that is the case, then the html encoding will default to <tt>2</tt>, which will strip all HTML tags. 

To restrict the amount of words of the content, you can use the cut parameter. If the content is less than the amount, then there won't be any dots added to the end. If there is content left over, then dots will be added and the rest of the content will be removed. 

== Usage ==
%%%<?php the_content_rss( $more_link_text, $stripteaser, $more_file, $cut, $encode_html ) ?>%%%

== Parameters ==
{{Parameter|$more_link_text|string|Text to display when more content is available but not displayed.|optional|'more...'}}
{{Parameter|$stripteaser|integer&#124;boolean|Default is 0.|optional|0}}
{{Parameter|$more_file|string|Optional.|optional|&#39;&#39;}}
{{Parameter|$cut|integer|Amount of words to keep for the content.|optional|0}}
{{Parameter|$encode_html|integer|How to encode the content.|optional|0}}

== Return Values ==
; (void) : This function does not return a value.

== Examples ==
<!-- Need creative examples. Feel free to link to external examples. -->

== Notes ==
* See [[Function_Reference/get_the_content|<tt>get_the_content()</tt>]] For the <tt>$more_link_text</tt>, <tt>$stripteaser</tt>, and <tt>$more_file</tt> parameters.
* Uses: [[Function_Reference/apply_filters|<tt>apply_filters()</tt>]] Calls '<tt>the_content_rss</tt>' on the content before processing.

== Change Log ==
Since: 0.71

== Source File ==

<tt>the_content_rss()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/feed.php}}.

== Related ==
<!--
    To Do:
    Need to find related functions.
    Need to create groups of functions and create templates to add them to a page quickly.
    Some functions may be related to many groups of functions.
-->

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]
[[Category:New_page_created]]