{{Languages|
{{en|Template Tags/the_modified_date}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/the_modified_date}}
}}

== Description ==

This tag displays the date (and time) a post was last modified.  This tag works just like [[Template Tags/the_modified_time|the_modified_time()]], which also displays the time/date a post was last modified.  This tag must be used within [[The Loop]].  If no format parameter is specified, the '''Default date format''' (please note that says Date format) setting from [[Administration Panels|Administration]] > [[Administration Panels#Settings|Settings]] > [[Settings General SubPanel|General]] is used for the display format.

If the post or page is not yet modified, the modified date is the same as the creation date.

Use [[Function_Reference/get the modified date|get_the_modified_date()]] to retrieve the value.

== Usage ==

%%% <?php the_modified_date( $d, $before, $after, $echo ); ?> %%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$d|string|The format the date is to display in.  Defaults to the date format configured in your WordPress settings. See [[Formatting Date and Time]].|optional|date format specified in [[Administration Panels|Administration]] > [[Administration Panels#Settings|Settings]] > [[Settings General SubPanel|General]]}}
{{Parameter|$before|string|Output before the date.|optional}}
{{Parameter|$after|string|Output after the date.|optional}}
{{Parameter|$echo|boolean|Default is display. Whether to echo the date or return it.|optional|true}}
:* ''true'' (default)
:* ''false''

== Examples ==

=== Default Usage ===

Displays the date the post was last modified, using the '''Default date format''' setting (e.g. F j, Y) from [[Administration Panels|Administration]] > [[Administration Panels#Settings|Settings]] > [[Settings General SubPanel|General]].

 &lt;p&gt;Last modified: <?php the_modified_date(); ?>&lt;/p&gt;

<div style="border:1px solid blue; width:50%; padding:10px">Last modified: December 2, 2006</div><br/>

=== Date as Month Day, Year ===

Displays the last modified date in the date format <tt>'F j, Y'</tt> (ex: December 2, 2006).

 &lt;div&gt;Last modified: <?php the_modified_date('F j, Y'); ?>&lt;/div&gt;

<div style="border:1px solid blue; width:50%; padding:10px">Last modified: December 2, 2006</div><br/>

=== Date and Time ===

Displays the date and time.

 &lt;p&gt;Modified: <?php the_modified_date('F j, Y'); ?> at <?php the_modified_date('g:i a'); ?>&lt;/p&gt;

<div style="border:1px solid blue; width:50%; padding:10px">Modified: December 2, 2006 at 10:36 pm</div><br/>

=== Date with <sup>superscript</sup> or <sub style="font-size:0.8em;">subscript</sub> number suffixes ===

Displays the date with a superscript or subscript ''st'', ''nd'', ''rd'' or ''th'' after the day. Because characters from the alphabet are used to represent the date format types, each of the HTML tag characters need to be escaped using a back slash. Superscript HTML tag is <tt>&lt;sup&gt;</tt> and subscript is <tt>&lt;sub&gt;</tt>.

 &lt;p&gt;Modified: <?php the_modified_date('j\<\s\u\p\>S\<\/\s\u\p\> M Y'); ?>&lt;/p&gt;

<div style="border:1px solid blue; width:50%; padding:10px">Modified: 2<sup>nd</sup> Dec 2006</div><br/>

== Changelog ==

* [[Version 3.0|3.0.0]]: Added <tt>$before</tt>, <tt>$after</tt> and <tt>$echo</tt> parameters
* Since: [[Version 2.1|2.1.0]]

== Source File ==

<tt>the_modified_date()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/general-template.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Date Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]