{{Languages|
{{en|Template Tags/the_permalink}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/the_permalink}}
}}

== Description ==

Displays the [[Glossary#URI and URL|URL]] for the [[Glossary#Permalink|permalink]] to the post currently being processed in [[The Loop]]. This tag must be within [[The Loop]], and is generally used to display the permalink for each post, when the posts are being displayed. Since this template tag is limited to displaying the permalink for the post that is being processed, you cannot use it to display the permalink to an arbitrary post on your weblog. Refer to [[Template_Tags/get_permalink|get_permalink()]] if you want to get the permalink for a post, given its unique post id.

== Usage ==

%%% <?php the_permalink(); ?> %%%

== Parameters ==

Before 4.4.0, this tag has no parameters. Since 4.4.0: Added the `$post` parameter.

== Examples ==

=== Display Post URL as Text ===

Displays the URL to the post, without creating a link:

 This address for this post is: &lt;?php the_permalink(); ?&gt;

=== As Link With Text ===

You can use whatever text you like as the link text, in this case, "permalink".

 &lt;a href="&lt;?php the_permalink(); ?&gt;"&gt;permalink&lt;/a&gt;

=== Used as Link With Title Tag===

Creates a link for the permalink, with the post's title as the link text. This is a common way to put the post's title.

 <a href="<?php the_permalink(); ?>" title="<?php the_title_attribute(); ?>"><?php the_title(); ?></a>

== Change Log ==

* Since: [[Version 1.2|1.2.0]]
* Originally defined in {{Trac|wp-includes/template-functions-links.php|tags/1.5|3}}
* File renamed to {{Trac|wp-includes/link-template.php|tags/2.1|4}} in [[Version 2.1|2.1]]

== Source File ==

<tt>the_permalink()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/link-template.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Permalink Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]