{{Languages|
{{en|Template Tags/the_author_meta}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/the_author_meta}}
{{tr|Tema_Etiketleri/the_author_meta}}
}}

== Description ==

The [[Template_Tags/the_author_meta|the_author_meta]] Template Tag displays a desired meta data field for a user. Only one field is returned at a time, you need to specify which you want.

If this tag is used within [[The Loop]], the user ID value need not be specified, and the displayed data is that of the current post author. A user ID can be specified if this tag is used outside [[The Loop]].

If the meta field does not exist, nothing is printed.

'''NOTE:''' Use <code>get_the_author_meta()</code> if you need to return (and do something with) the field, rather than just display it.

== Usage ==

%%% <?php the_author_meta( $field, $userID ); ?> %%%

== Parameters ==

; $field : (''string'') Field name for the data item to be displayed.  Valid values:
:*<tt>user_login</tt>
:*<tt>user_pass</tt>
:*<tt>user_nicename</tt>
:*<tt>user_email</tt>
:*<tt>user_url</tt>
:*<tt>user_registered</tt>
:*<tt>user_activation_key</tt>
:*<tt>user_status</tt>
:*<tt>display_name</tt>
:*<tt>nickname</tt>
:*<tt>first_name</tt>
:*<tt>last_name</tt>
:*<tt>description</tt>
:*<tt>jabber</tt>
:*<tt>aim</tt>
:*<tt>yim</tt>
:*<tt>user_level</tt>
:*<tt>user_firstname</tt>
:*<tt>user_lastname</tt>
:*<tt>user_description</tt>
:*<tt>rich_editing</tt>
:*<tt>comment_shortcuts</tt>
:*<tt>admin_color</tt>
:*<tt>plugins_per_page</tt>
:*<tt>plugins_last_view</tt>
:*<tt>ID</tt>

{{Parameter|$userID|integer|If the user ID fields is used, then this function display the specific field for this user ID.|optional|false}}

== Examples ==

=== Display the Author's AIM screenname ===

Displays the value in the author's '''AIM''' (AOL Instant Messenger screenname) field.

 &lt;p&gt;This author's AIM address is <?php the_author_meta('aim'); ?>&lt;/p&gt;

=== Display a User Email Address ===

Displays the email address for user ID 25.

 &lt;p&gt;The email address for user id 25 is <?php the_author_meta('user_email',25); ?>&lt;/p&gt;

== Advanced Uses ==

A plugin may add an additional field in the registration or manage users, which adds a new value in the wp_usermeta table (where wp_ is your data base prefix). For this example we will use a Twitter ID. For a  meta_key value of "twitter" and meta_value of "WordPress" then

 &lt;p&gt;This author's Twitter name is <?php the_author_meta('twitter'); ?>&lt;/p&gt;

would return

This author's Twitter name is WordPress

== Change Log ==

Since: 2.8.0

== Source File ==

<tt>the_author_meta()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/author-template.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Author Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]