{{Languages|
{{en|Template_Tags/the_tags}}
{{tr|Tema_Etiketleri/the tags}}
{{ru|Теги_шаблонов/the_tags}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/the tags}}
}}
== Description ==

This template tag displays a link to the tag or tags a post belongs to. If no tags are associated with the current entry, nothing is displayed. This tag should be used within [[The Loop]].

== Usage ==

%%% <?php the_tags( $before, $sep, $after ); ?> %%%

== Parameters ==

; $before : (''string'') Text to display before the actual tags are displayed.  Defaults to '''Tags: '''
; $sep : (''string'') Text or character to display between each tag link. The default is a comma (,) between each tag.
; $after : (''string'') Text to display after the last tag.  The default is to display nothing.

== Return Values ==
None.

== Examples ==

===Default Usage===

The default usage lists tags with each tag (if more than one) separated by a comma (,) and preceded with the default text '''Tags: '''.

<pre><p><?php the_tags(); ?></p></pre>

===Separated by Commas===

Displays a list of the tags with a line break after it.
<pre> <?php the_tags( 'Tags: ', ', ', '<br />' ); ?> </pre>

===Separated by Arrow===

Displays links to tags with an arrow (&gt;) separating the tags and preceded with the text '''Social tagging:'''

<pre><?php the_tags( 'Social tagging: ',' > ' ); ?></pre>

===Separated by a Bullet===
Displays links to tags with a bullet (&bull;) separating the tags and preceded with the text '''Tagged with: ''' and followed by a line break.

<pre><?php the_tags( 'Tagged with: ', ' &bull; ', '<br />' ); ?></pre>

===A List Example===

Displays a list of the tags as an unordered list:

<pre><?php the_tags( '<ul><li>', '</li><li>', '</li></ul>' ); ?></pre>

== Source Code ==
* <tt>the_tags()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/category-template.php}}

== Change Log ==

Since: 2.3.0

== Note About Custom Taxonomies ==

If you're using your own custom [[Post Types]] the_tags() and related functions will not work. You must use [[Function_Reference/the_terms|the_terms()]] and its related functions.

== Related ==

{{Tag Tags}}, [[Function_Reference/the_taxonomies|the_taxonomies]]

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]