{{#dotorgredirect: https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/the_post_thumbnail/}}

{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/the_post_thumbnail}}
{{it|Riferimento funzioni/the_post_thumbnail}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/the_post_thumbnail}}
{{mk|Функција: the_post_thumbnail}}
}}

== Description ==

Display the Featured Image (previously called [[Post Thumbnails]]) for the current post, as set in that post's edit screen.

This tag must be used within [[The Loop]]. Use <code>[[Function Reference/get_the_post_thumbnail|get_the_post_thumbnail]]($id, $size, $attr )</code> instead to get the featured image for any post.

Use <code>[[Function Reference/has_post_thumbnail|has_post_thumbnail()]]</code> to check whether a Feature Image has been added to the post.

To enable post thumbnails, the current theme must include <code>[[Function Reference/add theme support|add_theme_support]]( 'post-thumbnails' );</code> in its <tt>[[Theme_Development#Functions_File|functions.php]]</tt> file. See also [[Post Thumbnails]].

== Usage ==

%%% <?php the_post_thumbnail( $size, $attr ); ?> %%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$size|string/array|Image size. Either a string keyword (thumbnail, medium, large, full), or any custom size keyword defined by [[Function Reference/add image size|add_image_size()]], or a 2-item array representing width and height in pixels, e.g. array(32,32).|Optional|'post-thumbnail', which theme sets using [[Function Reference/set_post_thumbnail_size|set_post_thumbnail_size]]. }}

PLEASE NOTE: The crop does not work in WP 3.0+. All that is needed for WP 3.0+ is the call for the thumbnail to post. Then proceed to media in the dashboard and set your thumbnail to crop to the size you wish to use.

{{Parameter|$attr|array|Array of attribute/value pairs. For details, search source for the function that <code>the_post_thumbnail</code> relies on: <code>wp_get_attachment_image</code>|Optional|None}}
<pre>
$default_attr = array(
	'src'   => $src,
	'class' => "attachment-$size",
	'alt'   => trim( strip_tags( $wp_postmeta->_wp_attachment_image_alt ) ),
	'title' => trim( strip_tags( $attachment->post_title ) )
);
</pre>

Note that these attributes will be automatically escaped within the internal call to <code>wp_get_attachment_image</code> - you do not need to <code>esc_attr()</code> the attributes you pass to this function.

== Examples ==

=== Default Usage ===

<pre>
<?php 
if ( has_post_thumbnail() ) { // check if the post has a Post Thumbnail assigned to it.
	the_post_thumbnail();
} 
?>
<?php the_content(); ?>
</pre>

'''Note:''' To return the Post Thumbnail for use in your PHP code instead of displaying it, use: [[Function Reference/get_the_post_thumbnail|get_the_post_thumbnail()]]

=== Thumbnail Sizes  ===

The default image sizes of WordPress are "thumbnail", "medium", "large" and "full" (the size of the image you uploaded). These image sizes can be configured in the WordPress Administration [[Settings Media SubPanel|Media panel]] under Settings > Media. This is how you can use these default sizes with the_post_thumbnail():

<pre>
the_post_thumbnail();                  // without parameter -> 'post-thumbnail'
 
the_post_thumbnail( 'thumbnail' );       // Thumbnail (default 150px x 150px max)
the_post_thumbnail( 'medium' );          // Medium resolution (default 300px x 300px max)
the_post_thumbnail( 'large' );           // Large resolution (default 1024px x 1024px max)
the_post_thumbnail( 'full' );            // Full resolution (original size uploaded)
 
the_post_thumbnail( array(100, 100) );  // Other resolutions
</pre>

Register new image sizes for Post Thumbnails with: [[Function Reference/add_image_size|add_image_size()]].<br />To set the default size for Post Thumbnails see: [[Function Reference/set_post_thumbnail_size|set_post_thumbnail_size()]].

=== Post Thumbnail Linking to the Post Permalink ===

'''Note:''' Don't use these two examples together in the same Theme.

example 1. To link Post Thumbnails to the Post Permalink in a '''specific loop''', use the following within your Theme's template files:

<pre>
<?php if ( has_post_thumbnail() ) : ?>
	<a href="<?php the_permalink(); ?>" title="<?php the_title_attribute(); ?>">
	<?php the_post_thumbnail(); ?>
	</a>
<?php endif; ?></pre>

example 2. To link '''all Post Thumbnails''' on your website to the Post Permalink, put this in the current Theme's [[Theme_Development#Functions_File|functions.php]] file:

<pre>add_filter( 'post_thumbnail_html', 'my_post_image_html', 10, 3 );

function my_post_image_html( $html, $post_id, $post_image_id ) {
	$html = '<a href="' . get_permalink( $post_id ) . '" title="' . esc_attr( get_the_title( $post_id ) ) . '">' . $html . '</a>';
	return $html;
}</pre>

=== Post Thumbnail Linking to Large Image Size ===

This example links to the "large" Post Thumbnail image size and must be used within [[The Loop]].

<pre>
<?php 
if ( has_post_thumbnail() ) {
	$large_image_url = wp_get_attachment_image_src( get_post_thumbnail_id(), 'large' );
	echo '<a href="' . $large_image_url[0] . '" title="' . the_title_attribute( 'echo=0' ) . '">';
	the_post_thumbnail( 'thumbnail' );
	echo '</a>';
}
?></pre>

=== Styling Post Thumbnails ===

Post Thumbnails are given a class "wp-post-image". They also get a class depending on the size of the thumbnail being displayed
You can style the output with these [[Glossary#CSS|CSS selectors]]:

 img.wp-post-image
 img.attachment-thumbnail
 img.attachment-medium
 img.attachment-large
 img.attachment-full

You can also give Post Thumbnails their own class.<br>Display the Post Thumbnail with a class "alignleft":

<pre><?php the_post_thumbnail( 'thumbnail', array( 'class' => 'alignleft' ) ); ?></pre>

== Change Log  ==

* Since: [[Version 2.9|2.9.0]]

== Source File ==

<tt>the_post_thumbnail()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/post-thumbnail-template.php}}.

== External Resources ==

* [http://justintadlock.com/archives/2009/11/16/everything-you-need-to-know-about-wordpress-2-9s-post-image-feature Everything you need to know about WordPress 2.9’s post image feature], by JustinTadlock.com
* [http://wpengineer.com/the-ultimative-guide-for-the_post_thumbnail-in-wordpress-2-9/ The Ultimative Guide For the_post_thumbnail In WordPress 2.9], by wpEngineer.com
* [http://markjaquith.wordpress.com/2009/12/23/new-in-wordpress-2-9-post-thumbnail-images/ New in WordPress 2.9: Post Thumbnail Images], by Mark Jaquith
* [http://www.prelovac.com/vladimir/simple-wordpress-thumbnail-function Simple WordPress thumbnail function], by Vladimir Prelovac

== Related ==

{{Post Thumbnail Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]