{{Languages|
{{en|Template Tags/trackback_rdf}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/trackback_rdf}}
}}

== Description ==

Outputs the [[Glossary#Trackback|trackback]] [[Glossary#RDF|RDF]] information for a post. This tag must be within [[The Loop]].

This information is not displayed in a browser. Its use is partly intended for auto-detection of the trackback [[Glossary#URI and URL|URI]] to a post, which can be "trackbacked" by some blogging and RDF tools. Include this tag in your template if you want to enable auto-discovery of the trackback URI for a post.  Without it, people who wish to send a trackback to one of your posts will have to manually search for the trackback URI.

== Usage ==

%%% <?php trackback_rdf(); ?> %%%

== Parameters ==

This tag has no parameters.

== Example ==

Displays the RDF information before the end of [[The Loop]]. You should wrap the tag in an [[Glossary#HTML|HTML]] comment tag, to avoid issues with validation.

<pre>
<!--
<?php trackback_rdf(); ?>
-->

<?php endforeach; else: ?>
</pre>

== Changelog ==

* [[Version 3.0.1|3.0.1]] : Restored for Trackback auto-discovery. ([http://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/11139 Ticket #11139])
* [[Version 3.0|3.0.0]] : Deprecated. Use the <code>rel="trackback"</code> method.
* Since: 0.71

== Source File ==

<tt>trackback_rdf()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/comment-template.php}}.

== Related ==

* [[The Loop in Action#Trackback Autodiscovery|The Loop in Action - Trackback Autodiscovery]]
* [http://www.movabletype.org/documentation/trackback/specification.html TrackBack Technical Specification] - Auto-Discovery of TrackBack Ping URLs (Movable Type)

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]