{{Languages|
{{zh-cn|模板标签/wp_list_pages}}
{{en|Template Tags/wp_list_pages}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/wp_list_pages}}
}}

== Опис ==

Displays a list of WordPress [[Pages]] as links. It is often used to customize the [[Customizing_Your_Sidebar|Sidebar]] or [[Designing_Headers|Header]], but may be used in other [[Templates]] as well.

== Використання ==

%%% <?php wp_list_pages( $args ); ?> %%%

=== Типове використання ===

<pre>
<?php $args = array(
	'depth'        => 0,
	'show_date'    => '',
	'date_format'  => get_option('date_format'),
	'child_of'     => 0,
	'exclude'      => '',
	'include'      => '',
	'title_li'     => __('Pages'),
	'echo'         => 1,
	'authors'      => '',
	'sort_column'  => 'menu_order, post_title',
	'link_before'  => '',
	'link_after'   => '',
	'walker'       => '',
	'post_type'    => 'page',
        'post_status'  => 'publish' 
); ?>
</pre>

By default, the usage shows:
* All Pages and sub-pages are displayed (no depth restriction)
* Date created is not displayed
* Is not restricted to the child_of any Page
* No pages are excluded
* No pages are explicitly included
* The title of the pages listed is "Pages"
* Results are echoed (displayed)
* Is not restricted to any specific author
* Sorted by Page Order then Page Title.
* Sorted in ascending order
* Pages displayed in a hierarchical indented fashion (not shown in defaults above)
* Includes all Pages (not shown in defaults above)
* Not restricted to Pages with specific meta key/meta value (not shown in defaults above)
* No Parent/Child trees excluded

== Параметри ==

Note: generically, arguments are inherited from [[Function_Reference/get_pages#Parameters|get_pages]].

; '''sort_column''' : (''string'') Sorts the list of Pages in a number of different ways. The default setting is ''sort alphabetically by Page title''.
:* <tt>'post_title'</tt> - Sort Pages alphabetically (by title) - default
:* <tt>'menu_order'</tt> - Sort Pages by Page Order. Note the difference between ''Page Order'' and ''Page ID''. The Page ID is a unique number assigned by WordPress to every post or page. The Page Order can be set by the user in the [[Pages_Pages_SubPanel|Pages→Edit]] panel. See the [[#List Pages by Page Order|example]] below.
:* <tt>'post_date'</tt> - Sort by creation time.
:* <tt>'post_modified'</tt> - Sort by time last modified.
:* <tt>'ID'</tt> - Sort by numeric Page ID.
:* <tt>'post_author'</tt> - Sort by the Page author's numeric ID.
:* <tt>'post_name'</tt> - Sort alphabetically by Post [[Glossary#Slug|slug]].
:'''Note:''' The '''sort_column''' parameter can be used to sort the list of Pages by the descriptor of any field in the [[Database Description#Table:_wp_posts|wp_post table]] of the WordPress database. Some useful examples are listed here.

; '''sort_order''' : (''string'') Change the sort order of the list of Pages (either ascending or descending). The default is ''ascending''. Valid values:
:* <tt>'ASC'</tt> - Sort from lowest to highest (Default).
:* <tt>'DESC'</tt> - Sort from highest to lowest.

; '''exclude''' : (''string'') Define a comma-separated list of Page IDs to be excluded from the list (example: <tt>'exclude=3,7,31'</tt>). There is no default value. See the [[#Exclude Pages from List|Exclude Pages from List]] example below.

; '''exclude_tree''' : (''string'') Define a comma-separated list of parent Page IDs to be excluded.  Use this parameter to exclude a parent and all of that parent's child Pages.  So <tt>'exclude_tree=5'</tt> would exclude the parent Page 5, and its child (all descendant) Pages. (This parameter was added with [[Version 2.7]], and it does not function as described as of version 2.8.1 - [http://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/8683 See bug report].)

; '''include''' : (''string'') Only include certain Pages in the list generated by ''wp_list_pages''. Like '''exclude''', this parameter takes a comma-separated list of Page IDs. There is no default value. See the [[#Include Pages in List|Include Pages in List]] example below.

; '''depth''' : (''integer'') This parameter controls how many levels in the hierarchy of pages are to be included in the list generated by ''wp_list_pages''. The default value is ''0'' (display all pages, including all sub-pages).
:* <tt>0</tt> (default) Displays pages at any depth and arranges them hierarchically in nested lists
:* <tt>-1</tt> Displays pages at any depth and arranges them in a single, flat list
:* <tt>1</tt> Displays top-level Pages only
:* <tt>2</tt>, <tt>3</tt> … Displays Pages to the given depth

; '''child_of''' : (''integer'') Displays the sub-pages of a single Page only; uses the ID for a Page as the value. Note that the child_of parameter will also fetch "grandchildren" of the given ID, not just direct descendants.  Defaults to ''0'' (displays all Pages).

; '''show_date''' : (''string'') Display creation or last modified date next to each Page. The default value is the ''null value'' (do not display dates). Valid values:
:* <tt>'<nowiki></nowiki>'</tt> - Display no date (Default).
:* <tt>'modified'</tt> - Display the date last modified.
:* <tt>'xxx'</tt> - Any value other than ''modified'' displays the date ('''post_date''') the Page was first created. See the [[#Sort Pages by Post Date|example]] below.

; '''date_format''' : (''string'') Controls the format of the Page date set by the '''show_date''' parameter (example: "<tt><nowiki>l, F j, Y</nowiki></tt>"). This parameter defaults to the date format configured in your WordPress options. See [[Formatting Date and Time]] and the [http://php.net/date date format page on the php web site].

; '''title_li''' : (''string'') Set the text and style of the Page list's heading. Defaults to <tt>'__('Pages')'</tt>, which displays "Pages" (the <tt>__(&#039;&#039;)</tt> is used for [[Localization|localization purposes]]). If passed a null or empty value (<tt>&#039;&#039;</tt>), no heading is displayed, and the list will not be wrapped with <tt>&lt;ul>, &lt;/ul></tt> tags. See the example for [[#Hiding or Changing the List Heading|Headings]].

; '''echo''' : (''boolean'') Toggles the display of the generated list of links or return the list as an HTML text string to be used in PHP. The default value is ''1'' (display the generated list items). Valid values:
:* <tt>1 (True)</tt> - default
:* <tt>0 (False)</tt>

; meta_key : (''string'') Only include the Pages that have this Custom Field Key (use in conjunction with the meta_value field).
; meta_value : (''string'') Only include the Pages that have this Custom Field Value (use in conjunction with the meta_key field).

; '''link_before''' : (''string'') Sets the text or html that precedes the link text inside <a> tag. (This parameter was added with [[Version 2.7]])

; '''link_after''' : (''string'') Sets the text or html that follows the link text inside <a> tag. (This parameter was added with [[Version 2.7]])

; '''authors''' : (''string'') Only include Pages authored by the authors in this comma-separated list of author IDs. If no authors are specified, all authors are included.

; '''number''' : (''integer'') Sets the number of Pages to display. This causes the SQL LIMIT value to be defined. Default to no LIMIT. (This parameter was added with [[Version 2.8]])  NOTE: this is currently not working, see http://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/10745

; '''offset''' : (''integer'') The number of Pages to pass over (or displace) before collecting the set of Pages.  Default is no OFFSET.  (This parameter was added with [[Version 2.8]])

; '''post_type''': (''string'') List posts associated with certain [[Post Types|type]]. Default is 'page'. Valid values include:
:* <tt>post</tt>' - a post. 
:* '<tt>page</tt>' - a page.
:* '<tt>revision</tt>' - a revision.
:* '<tt>attachment</tt>' - an attachment.
:* Custom Post Types.

; '''post_status''': a comma-separated list of all post status types to return. For example: <tt>'publish,private'</tt>

== Приклади ==

=== Приховування або зміна заголовка списку ===
The default heading of the list ("Pages") of Pages generated by ''wp_list_pages'' can be hidden by passing a null or empty value to the '''title_li''' parameter. The following example displays no heading text above the list.

<pre><ul>
<?php wp_list_pages('title_li='); ?>
</ul></pre>

In the following example, only Pages with IDs 9, 5, and 23 are included in the list and the heading text has been changed to the word "Poetry", with a heading style of <tt><nowiki><h2></nowiki></tt>:

<pre><ul>
  <?php wp_list_pages('include=5,9,23&title_li=<h2>' . __('Poetry') . '</h2>' ); ?>
</ul></pre>

=== List Pages by Page Order ===
The following example lists the Pages in the order defined by the '''Order''' setting for each Page in the [[Pages_Pages_SubPanel|Pages→Edit]] panel.

<pre><ul>
  <?php wp_list_pages('sort_column=menu_order'); ?>
</ul></pre>

If you wanted to sort the list by Page Order and display the word "Prose" as the list heading (in h2 style) on a Sidebar, you could add the following code to the sidebar.php file:

<pre><ul>
  <?php wp_list_pages('sort_column=menu_order&title_li=<h2>' . __('Prose') . '</h2>' ); ?>
</ul></pre>

Using the following piece of code, the Pages will display without heading and in ''Page Order'':

<pre><ul>
  <?php wp_list_pages('sort_column=menu_order&title_li='); ?>
</ul></pre>

=== Sort Pages by Post Date===
This example displays Pages sorted by (creation) date, and shows the date next to each Page list item.

<pre><ul>
  <?php wp_list_pages('sort_column=post_date&show_date=created'); ?>
</ul></pre>

=== Exclude Pages from List ===
Use the '''exclude''' parameter to hide certain Pages from the list to be generated by ''wp_list_pages''.  <!-- '''Note''': Page numbers must be in ascending order (i.e. <tt>'exclude=17,38'</tt> and not <tt>'exclude=38,17'</tt>).   Note this isn't true at least as 2.1.3 -->

<pre><ul>
  <?php wp_list_pages('exclude=17,38' ); ?>
</ul></pre>

=== Include Pages in List ===
To include only certain Pages in the list, for instance, Pages with ID numbers 35, 7, 26 and 13, use the '''include''' parameter. <!--'''Note''': Page numbers must be in ascending order (i.e. <tt>'include=7,13,26,35'</tt> and not <tt>'include=35,7,26,13'</tt>).  this does not seem to be true at least at 2.1.3-->

<pre><ul>
  <?php wp_list_pages('include=7,13,26,35&title_li=<h2>' . __('Pages') . '</h2>' ); ?>
  </ul>
</pre>

=== List Sub-Pages ===

'''Versions prior to Wordpress 2.0.1 :'''

Put this inside the <tt>the_post()</tt> section of the page.php template of your WordPress theme after <tt>the_content()</tt>, or put it in a copy of the page.php template that you use for pages that have sub-pages:

<pre><ul>
  <?php
  global $id;
  wp_list_pages("title_li=&child_of=$id&show_date=modified
  &date_format=$date_format"); ?>
</ul></pre>

This example does not work with Wordpress 2.0.1 or newer if placed in a page template because the global $id is not set. Use the following code instead.

'''Wordpress 2.0.1 or newer :'''

NOTE: Requires an HTML tag (either <tt><nowiki><ul></nowiki></tt> or <tt><nowiki><ol></nowiki></tt>) even if  there are no subpages. Keep this in mind if you are using css to style the list.

<pre><ul>
  <?php
  wp_list_pages('title_li=&child_of='.$post->ID.'&show_date=modified
  &date_format=$date_format'); ?>
  </ul>
</pre>

The following example will generate a list only if there are child pages (pages that designate the current page as a parent) for the current page:

<pre><?php
  $children = wp_list_pages('title_li=&child_of='.$post->ID.'&echo=0');
  if ($children) { ?>
  <ul>
  <?php echo $children; ?>
  </ul>
  <?php } ?>
</pre>

==== List subpages even if on a subpage ====

The above examples will only show the children from the parent page, but not when actually on a child page.  This code will show the child pages, and only the child pages, when on a parent or on one of the children.

This code will not work if placed after a widget block in the sidebar.


<pre><?php
  if($post->post_parent)
  $children = wp_list_pages("title_li=&child_of=".$post->post_parent."&echo=0");
  else
  $children = wp_list_pages("title_li=&child_of=".$post->ID."&echo=0");
  if ($children) { ?>
  <ul>
  <?php echo $children; ?>
  </ul>
  <?php } ?>
</pre>

As an alternative, this code in a ''sidebar.php'', displays only top level Pages, but when viewing a Page that has children (or is a child) it displays only children of that parent.  
* When visiting main page, all top level pages are listed in the sidebar.  
* When visiting a top level page with no children, all top level pages are listed.  
* When visiting a top level page with children, just the children pages, and descendant pages, are listed.  
* When visiting a child page, just the children, and descendant pages, of that parent, are listed.
<pre>
<?php
$output = wp_list_pages('echo=0&depth=1&title_li=<h2>Top Level Pages </h2>' );
if (is_page( )) {
  $page = $post->ID;
  if ($post->post_parent) {
    $page = $post->post_parent;
  }
  $children=wp_list_pages( 'echo=0&child_of=' . $page . '&title_li=' );
  if ($children) {
    $output = wp_list_pages ('echo=0&child_of=' . $page . '&title_li=<h2>Child Pages</h2>');
  }
}
echo $output;
?>
</pre>

*Page List that: Only displays if child (sub) pages exist, displays page list of subpages on the parent page AND on the child pages HOWEVER this code keeps the parent page name in the title which makes it different from the previous example.)

<pre>
<?php
  if($post->post_parent) {
  $children = wp_list_pages("title_li=&child_of=".$post->post_parent."&echo=0");
  $titlenamer = get_the_title($post->post_parent);
  }

  else {
  $children = wp_list_pages("title_li=&child_of=".$post->ID."&echo=0");
  $titlenamer = get_the_title($post->ID);
  }
  if ($children) { ?>

  <h2> <?php echo $titlenamer; ?> </h2>
  <ul>
  <?php echo $children; ?>
  </ul>

<?php } ?>
</pre>

==== List whole subpages ====

This is how to get the whole subpages list

<pre>
<?php
if(!$post->post_parent){
	// will display the subpages of this top level page
	$children = wp_list_pages("title_li=&child_of=".$post->ID."&echo=0");
}
else{

	if($post->ancestors) {
		// now you can get the the top ID of this page
		// wp is putting the ids DESC, thats why the top level ID is the last one
		$ancestors = get_post_ancestors($this_page);
		$children = wp_list_pages("title_li=&child_of=".$ancestors."&echo=0");
	}
}

if ($children) { ?>
	<ul>
		<?php echo $children; ?>
	</ul>
<?php } ?>
</pre>

==== List parent Page and all descendant Pages ====
Since there's no way to tell [[Template Tags/wp list pages|wp_list_pages]] to display a particular parent tree (parent and all generations displayes) this example uses [[Function_Reference/get_pages|get_pages]] to get all the descendants for a parent, then use [[Template Tags/wp list pages|wp_list_pages]] to display the 'family tree'.

<pre>
<?php 
// use wp_list_pages to display parent and all child pages all generations (a tree with parent)
$parent = 93;
$args=array(
  'child_of' => $parent
);
$pages = get_pages($args);  
if ($pages) {
  $pageids = array();
  foreach ($pages as $page) {
    $pageids[]= $page->ID;
  }

  $args=array(
    'title_li' => 'Tree of Parent Page ' . $parent,
    'include' =>  $parent . ',' . implode(",", $pageids)
  );
  wp_list_pages($args);
}
?>
</pre>

==== List current Page with its ancestors and children ====
This example will list current Page, ancestors of current page, and children of current page,
Since child_of displays all children, wpdb is used instead, along with include to not display everything 'and the kitchen sink'. 
<pre>
<?php
//if the post has a parent
if($post->post_parent){
  //collect ancestor pages
  $relations = get_post_ancestors($post->ID);
  //get child pages
  $result = $wpdb->get_results( "SELECT ID FROM wp_posts WHERE post_parent = $post->ID AND post_type='page'" );
  if ($result){
    foreach($result as $pageID){
      array_push($relations, $pageID->ID);
    }
  }
  //add current post to pages
  array_push($relations, $post->ID);
  //get comma delimited list of children and parents and self
  $relations_string = implode(",",$relations);
  //use include to list only the collected pages. 
  $sidelinks = wp_list_pages("title_li=&echo=0&include=".$relations_string);
}else{
  // display only main level and children
  $sidelinks = wp_list_pages("title_li=&echo=0&depth=1&child_of=".$post->ID);
}

if ($sidelinks) { ?>
  <h2><?php the_title(); ?></h2>
  <ul>
    <?php //links in <li> tags
    echo $sidelinks; ?>
  </ul>         
<?php } ?>
</pre>

==== List topmost ancestor and its immediate children ====
This method will show the topmost ancestor of the current page as well as the topmost ancestor's immediate children. This can be used for clean secondary subnavigation.

First, create the following function (preferably in functions.php, assuming this is for a theme):

<pre>
if(!function_exists('get_post_top_ancestor_id')){
/**
 * Gets the id of the topmost ancestor of the current page. Returns the current
 * page's id if there is no parent.
 * 
 * @uses object $post
 * @return int 
 */
function get_post_top_ancestor_id(){
    global $post;
    
    if($post->post_parent){
        $ancestors = array_reverse(get_post_ancestors($post->ID));
        return $ancestors[0];
    }
    
    return $post->ID;
}}
</pre>

Next, add the following code to your theme (wherever you want the menu to appear):
<pre>
<ul class="clearfix">
    <?php wp_list_pages( array('title_li'=>'','include'=>get_post_top_ancestor_id()) ); ?>
    <?php wp_list_pages( array('title_li'=>'','depth'=>1,'child_of'=>get_post_top_ancestor_id()) ); ?>
</ul>
</pre>

=== List the Home page ===
If you want a link to the blog page as well use [[Template_Tags/wp_page_menu | wp_page_menu()]].

=== List members of a custom post type ===
If a given custom post type is hierarchical in nature, then [[Function_Reference/wp_list_pages|wp_list_pages()]] can be used to list the member of that custom post type.  In this example the custom post type Portfolio is listed:

<pre>
<?php 
$args = array(
  'post_type'=>'portfolio',
  'title_li'=> __('Portfolio')
);
wp_list_pages( $args ); 
?> 
</pre>



=== Markup and styling of page items ===

By default, '''wp_list_pages()''' generates a nested, unordered list of WordPress [[Pages]] created with the [[Administration_Panels#Write_Page|Write]] > [[Write_Page_SubPanel|Page]] admin panel. You can remove the outermost item (<tt>li.pagenav</tt>) and list (<tt>ul</tt>) by setting the <var>title_li</var> parameter to an empty string.

All list items (<tt>li</tt>) generated by '''wp_list_pages()''' are marked with the class <tt>page_item</tt>. When '''wp_list_pages()''' is called while displaying a Page, the list item for that Page is given the additional class <tt>current_page_item</tt>.

<pre><li class="pagenav">
Pages [title_li]
  <ul>
    <!-- Output starts here if 'title_li' parameter is empty -->
    <li class="page-item-2 page_item current_page_ancestor current_page_parent">
      [parent of the current Page]
      <ul>
        <li class="page-item-21 page_item current_page_item">
          [the current Page]
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li class="page-item-3 page_item">
      [another Page]
    </li>
  </ul>
</li></pre>

They can be styled with [[Glossary#CSS|CSS selectors]]:

<pre>.pagenav { … } /* the outermost list item; contains whole list */
.page-item-2 { … } /* item for Page ID 2 */
.page_item { … } /* any Page item */
.current_page_item { … } /* the current Page */
.current_page_parent { … } /* parent of the current Page */
.current_page_ancestor { … } /* any ancestor of the current Page */
</pre>

In order to achieve an accordion menu effect for instance, the following CSS can be used:

<pre>
.pagenav  ul ul,
.pagenav .current_page_item ul ul,
.pagenav .current_page_ancestor ul ul,
.pagenav .current_page_ancestor .current_page_item ul ul,
.pagenav .current_page_ancestor .current_page_ancestor ul ul {
	display: none;
	}

.pagenav .current_page_item ul,
.pagenav .current_page_ancestor ul,
.pagenav .current_page_ancestor .current_page_item ul,
.pagenav .current_page_ancestor .current_page_ancestor ul,
.pagenav .current_page_ancestor .current_page_ancestor .current_page_item ul,
.pagenav .current_page_ancestor .current_page_ancestor .current_page_ancestor ul {
	display: block;
	}
</pre>

== Menu Item CSS Classes ==

The following classes are applied to menu items, i.e. to the HTML <tt>&lt;li&gt;</tt> tags, generated by wp_list_pages(). '''Note:''' The <tt>wp_list_pages()</tt> and <tt>wp_page_menu()</tt> functions output the same CSS classes.

=== All Menu Items ===

* '''.page_item'''<br />This class is added to menu items that correspond to a static page.
* '''.page-item-<tt>$ID</tt>'''<br />This class is added to menu items that correspond to a static page, where <tt>$ID</tt> is the static page ID.

=== Current-Page Menu Items ===

* '''.current_page_item'''<br />This class is added to menu items that correspond to the currently rendered static page.

=== Current-Page Parent Menu Items ===

* '''.current_page_parent'''<br />This class is added to menu items that correspond to the hierarchical parent of the currently rendered static page.

=== Current-Page Ancestor Menu Items ===

* '''.current_page_ancestor'''<br />This class is added to menu items that correspond to a hierarchical ancestor of the currently rendered static page.


== Notes ==

* See Also: [[Template_Tags/wp_page_menu | wp_page_menu()]], [[Function_Reference/get_pages | get_pages()]]

== Changelog ==
* Since: 1.5.0
* [[Version 2.7|2.7]] : Added the <code>link_before</code>, <code>link_after</code> and <code>exclude_tree</code> parameters.
* [[Version 2.8|2.8]] : Added the <code>number</code> and <code>offset</code> parameters.

== Source File ==

<tt>wp_list_pages()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/post-template.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Lists Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]