== Description ==

This function intercepts changes to the administrator's email address. It keeps the address from being updated and instead sends the user a confirmation email, with a link to confirm the change.

== Usage ==

%%%<?php update_option_new_admin_email( $old_value, $value ); ?>%%%

'''Note:''' This function is ''not'' intended to be called directly! See [[#Examples | below]].

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$old_value|string|The administrator's old email address.}}
{{Parameter|$value|string|The new email address.}}

== Returns Values ==

This function does not return a value.

== Examples ==

This function is hooked to the <tt>[[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/update_option_(option) | 'update_option_new_admin_email']]</tt> and <tt>[[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/add_option_(option) | 'add_option_new_admin_email']]</tt> <tt>[[Function_Reference/do_action | actions]]</tt> by default. If for some reason you would like to disable it and allow administrators to change their email address without confirmation, you can do this:

<pre>
<?php

remove_action( 'add_option_new_admin_email', 'update_option_new_admin_email' );
remove_action( 'update_option_new_admin_email', 'update_option_new_admin_email' );

/**
 * Disable the confirmation notices when an administrator
 * changes their email address.
 *
 * @see http://codex.wordpress.com/Function_Reference/update_option_new_admin_email
 */
function wpdocs_update_option_new_admin_email( $old_value, $value ) {

    update_option( 'admin_email', $value );
}
add_action( 'add_option_new_admin_email', 'wpdocs_update_option_new_admin_email', 10, 2 );
add_action( 'update_option_new_admin_email', 'wpdocs_update_option_new_admin_email', 10, 2 );

?>
</pre>

== Notes ==

* Uses: <tt>[[Function_Reference/apply_filters | apply_filters()]]</tt> - Calls <tt>[[Plugin_API/Filter_Reference/new_admin_email_content | 'new_admin_email_content']]</tt> with the template for the confirmation email message.
* Uses: <tt>[[Function_Reference/wp_mail | wp_mail()]]</tt> - To send the confirmation email.

== Change Log ==

Since: [[Version_3.0 | 3.0.0]]

== Source File ==

<tt>update_option_new_admin_email()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-admin/includes/ms.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Tag Footer}}

{{Copyedit}}

[[Category:WPMS]]

[[Category:Functions]]

[[Category:New page created]]