== Description ==

Retrieve id of page/post given its url, or zero on failure. Can be thought of as the opposite function of <tt>[[Function_Reference/get_permalink | get_permalink()]]</tt>.

When using this function to retrive the ID of an attachment,  it is required that the url provided be in the format of example.com/?attachment_id=N and will not work with the full URL. To get the id from the full URL [http://pippinsplugins.com/retrieve-attachment-id-from-image-url/  see this] for a work around.

The function first checks for if the URL contains the ID of the item. If it doesn't it then does a in depth determination. However this requires [[Class_Reference/WP_Rewrite | Rewrite Rules]] to be enabled.

In a Plugin or Theme, it can be used as early as the [[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/setup_theme|setup_theme]] Action.  Any earlier usage, including [[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/plugins_loaded|plugins_loaded]], generates a Fatal Error.

== Usage ==

%%% <?php $postid = url_to_postid( $url ); ?> %%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$url|string|The permalink to check.}}

==Return Values==
; <tt>(int)</tt> : ID of the post or page that resides at the given URL, or 0 on failure.

== Change Log ==
* [[Version 3.7|3.7.0]]: This function now supports custom post types (see Trac tickets [http://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/19744 #19744], [http://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/25659 #25659]).
* Since: 1.0.0

== Source File ==
<tt>url_to_postid()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/rewrite.php}}.

[[Category:Functions]]
[[Category:New_page_created]]