{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/wp_add_inline_style}}
{{it|Riferimento funzioni/wp_add_inline_style}}
}}

== Description ==

Adds extra CSS.

Works only if the stylesheet has already been added. Accepts a string <tt>$data</tt> containing the CSS. If two or more CSS code blocks are added to the same stylesheet <tt>$handle</tt>, they will be printed in the order they were added, i.e. the latter added styles can redeclare the previous.

Remember that YOU have to sanitize the output, there is actually no sanitization inside the function.
You can use <tt>wp_kses( $data, array( "\'", '\"' ) );</tt> or <tt>wp_strip_all_tags( $data );</tt> or <tt>esc_html( $data );</tt> but this is NOT 100% secure. The actual (sep. 2015) best way to sanitize custom CSS rules is to use CSSTidy.

== Usage ==

%%%<?php wp_add_inline_style( $handle, $data ); ?>%%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$handle|string| Name of the script to which to add the extra styles. Lowercase string.|required}}

{{Parameter|$data|string| String containing the CSS to be added. |required}}

== Examples ==

<tt>wp_add_inline_style</tt> allows you to print extra styling whenever a certain stylesheet is loaded. For instance suppose a plug-in or theme makes use of the class <tt>.mycolor</tt> in a stylesheet to set a background color. This can be over-ridden by a user chosen color, stored in the database by using <tt>wp_add_inline_style</tt> to print the extra styling.

<pre>
<?php
function my_styles_method() {
	wp_enqueue_style(
		'custom-style',
		get_template_directory_uri() . '/css/custom_script.css'
	);
        $color = get_theme_mod( 'my-custom-color' ); //E.g. #FF0000
        $custom_css = "
                .mycolor{
                        background: {$color};
                }";
        wp_add_inline_style( 'custom-style', $custom_css );
}
add_action( 'wp_enqueue_scripts', 'my_styles_method' );
?>
</pre>

== Change Log ==

Since: [[Version 3.3|3.3]]

== Source File ==

<tt>wp_add_inline_style()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/functions.wp-styles.php}}

== Related ==
{{Enqueue Functions Related}}

[[Category:Functions]]

[[Category:New_page_created]]