{{Languages|
{{en|Function_Reference/wp_create_user}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/wp_create_user}}
}}

== Description ==

The [[Function_Reference/wp_create_user|wp_create_user]] function allows you to insert a new user into the WordPress database.  It uses the $wpdb class to escape the variable values, preparing it for insertion into the database.  Then the [http://php.net/compact PHP compact() function] is used to create an array with these values.  To create a user with additional parameters, use [[Function_Reference/wp_insert_user|wp_insert_user()]].

== Usage ==

%%% <?php wp_create_user( $username, $password, $email ); ?> %%%

== Example ==
As used in wp-admin/upgrade-functions.php:

<pre>
$user_id = username_exists( $user_name );
if ( !$user_id and email_exists($user_email) == false ) {
	$random_password = wp_generate_password( $length=12, $include_standard_special_chars=false );
	$user_id = wp_create_user( $user_name, $random_password, $user_email );
} else {
	$random_password = __('User already exists.  Password inherited.');
}
</pre>

== Parameters ==
{{Parameter|$username|string|The username of the user to be created.}}
{{Parameter|$password|string|The password of the user to be created.}}
{{Parameter|$email|string|The email address of the user to be created.|optional}}

== Returns ==
When successful - this function returns the user ID of the created user.
In case of failure (username or email already exists) the function returns an [[Class_Reference/WP_Error|error object]], with these possible values and messages;
* ''empty_user_login'', Cannot create a user with an empty login name.
* ''existing_user_login'', This username is already registered.
* ''existing_user_email'', This email address is already registered.

== Source File ==
<tt>wp_create_user()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/user.php}}.

{{Tag Footer}}


[[Category:Functions]]