{{Languages|
{{en|Function_Reference/wp_delete_post}}
{{ru|Справочник по функциям/wp delete post}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/wp delete post}}
{{tr|wp_delete_post}}
}}
== Description ==
Removes or trashes a post, attachment, or page. 

When the post or page is ''trashed'', all comments tied to the post is also moved to trash. The post meta fields and relationships between the post and taxonomy terms are saved until the post is deleted permanently (eg. emptying the trash or setting <tt>$force_delete</tt> to true).

When the post or page is ''permanently deleted'', everything that is tied to it is deleted also. This includes comments, post meta fields, and relationships between the post and taxonomy terms.

== Usage ==
%%% <?php wp_delete_post( $postid, $force_delete ); ?>%%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$postid|integer|Post ID.|optional|0}}
{{Parameter|$force_delete|bool|Whether to bypass trash and force deletion (added in WordPress 2.9).|optional|false}}

== Return Values ==
; (mixed) : The post object (if it was deleted or moved to the trash successfully) or false (failure). If the post was moved to the trash, $post represents its new state; if it was deleted, $post represents its state before deletion.

== Examples ==
=== Delete Post ===
Deleting WP default post "Hello World" which ID is '1'.

%%% <?php wp_delete_post(1); ?> %%%
<!-- Need creative examples. Feel free to link to external examples. -->

== Notes ==
* wp_delete_post() automatically reverts to [[Function_Reference/wp_trash_post|<tt>wp_trash_post()</tt>]] if <tt>$force_delete</tt> is ''false'', the <tt>post_type</tt> of <tt>$postid</tt> is ''page'' or ''post'', <tt>$postid</tt> is not already in the trash '''and''' if [[Editing_wp-config.php#Empty_Trash|that trash feature]] enabled (which it it is by default).
* Uses: [[Function_Reference/do_action|<tt>do_action()</tt>]] on '<tt>delete_post</tt>' before deletion unless post type is '<tt>attachment</tt>'.
* Uses: [[Function_Reference/do_action|<tt>do_action()</tt>]] on '<tt>deleted_post</tt>' after deletion unless <tt>post type</tt> is ''attachment''.
* Uses: [[Function_Reference/wp_delete_attachment|<tt>wp_delete_attachment()</tt>]] if <tt>post type</tt> is ''attachment''.
* Uses global <tt>$wpdb</tt>: (<tt>object</tt>) [[Class Reference/wpdb|wpdb]]
* Uses global <tt>$wp_rewrite</tt>: (<tt>object</tt>) [[Function_Reference/WP_Rewrite|WP_Rewrite]]

== Change Log ==
Since: 1.0.0

== Source File ==
<tt>wp_delete_post()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/post.php}}.

== Related ==
<!--
    To Do:
    Need to find related functions.
    Need to create groups of functions and create templates to add them to a page quickly.
    Some functions may be related to many groups of functions.
-->
[[Function_Reference/#Post.2C_Page.2C_Attachment_and_Bookmarks_Functions|'''Post, Page, Attachment and Bookmarks Functions''']]: [[Function_Reference/wp_trash_post|wp_trash_post()]], [[Function Reference/wp update post|wp_update_post()]], [[Function Reference/wp delete attachment|wp_delete_attachment()]], [[Function Reference/wp insert attachment|wp_insert_attachment()]], [[Function Reference/wp insert post|wp_insert_post()]]

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]