{{Languages|
{{en|Template Tags/wp_dropdown_users}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/wp_dropdown_users}}
{{tr|Tema_Etiketleri/wp_dropdown_users}}
}}

== Description ==

Create dropdown HTML content of users.

== Usage ==

%%% <?php wp_dropdown_users( $args ); ?> %%%

=== Default Usage ===

%%% <?php $args = array(
	'show_option_all'         => null, // string
	'show_option_none'        => null, // string
	'hide_if_only_one_author' => null, // string
	'orderby'                 => 'display_name',
	'order'                   => 'ASC',
	'include'                 => null, // string
	'exclude'                 => null, // string
	'multi'                   => false,
	'show'                    => 'display_name',
	'echo'                    => true,
	'selected'                => false,
	'include_selected'        => false,
	'name'                    => 'user', // string
	'id'                      => null, // integer
	'class'                   => null, // string 
	'blog_id'                 => $GLOBALS['blog_id'],
	'who'                     => null, // string,
	'role'                    => null, // string|array,
	'role__in'                => null, // array	
	'role__not_in'            => null, // array		
); ?> %%%

== Parameters ==

; show_option_all : ([[How to Pass Tag Parameters#String|''string'']]) Causes the HTML for the dropdown to allow you to select All of the users.

; show_option_none : ([[How to Pass Tag Parameters#String|''string'']]) Creates an additional &lt;OPTION&gt; tag at the top of the &lt;SELECT&gt; for selecting "none". Value of this parameter should be a string of the actual text displayed. (Eg: setting this parameter to the boolean <tt>true</tt> would actually cause the value "1" to be output as the first option in the dropdown list)
; orderby : ([[How to Pass Tag Parameters#String|''string'']]) Key to sort options by. Valid values:
:* <tt>'ID'</tt>
:* <tt>'user_nicename'</tt>
:* <tt>'display_name'</tt> - Default

; order : ([[How to Pass Tag Parameters#String|''string'']]) Sort order for options. Valid values:
:* <tt>'ASC'</tt> - Default
:* <tt>'DESC'</tt>

; include : ([[How to Pass Tag Parameters#String|''string'']]) Comma separated list of users IDs to include. For example, 'include=4,12' means users IDs 4 and 12 will be displayed/echoed or returned. Defaults to include all.

; exclude : ([[How to Pass Tag Parameters#String|''string'']]) Comma separated list of users IDs to exclude. For example, 'exclude=4,12' means users IDs 4 and 12 will NOT be displayed/echoed or returned. It will be ignored if the <tt>include</tt> argument is set.

; multi : ([[How to Pass Tag Parameters#Boolean|''boolean'']]) Whether to skip the ID attribute on the 'select' element.
:* <tt>1 (True)</tt>
:* <tt>0 (False)</tt> - Default

; show : ([[How to Pass Tag Parameters#String|''string'']]) User table column to display. If the selected item is empty then the user_login will be displayed in parentesis.
:* <tt>'ID'</tt>
:* <tt>'user_login'</tt>
:* <tt>'display_name'</tt> - Default

; echo : ([[How to Pass Tag Parameters#Boolean|''boolean'']]) Display users (<tt>TRUE</tt>) or return them for use by PHP (<tt>FALSE</tt>).
:* <tt>1 (True)</tt> - Default
:* <tt>0 (False)</tt>

; selected : ([[How to Pass Tag Parameters#Integer|''integer'']]) User ID of the user to be 'selected' or presented in the display box. Defaults to no user selected.

; include_selected : ([[How to Pass Tag Parameters#Integer|''boolean'']]) Always include the selected user ID in the dropdown. Default is false.

; name : ([[How to Pass Tag Parameters#String|''string'']]) Name assigned to the dropdown form. Defaults to 'user'.

; class : ([[How to Pass Tag Parameters#String|''string'']]) Class assigned to the dropdown form.

;id : ID attribute of select element.  Default is the value of the 'name' parameter. 
;class : Class attribute of select element.
;blog_id : ID of blog (Multisite only). Defaults to ID of current blog.
;who : Which users to query.  Currently only 'authors' is supported. Default is all users.  Introduced with [[Version 3.1]].

;role : An array or a comma-separated list of role names that users must match to be included in results. Note that this is an inclusive list: users must match *each* role. Default empty. Introduced with [[Version 4.5.7]].

;role__in : An array of role names. Matched users must have at least one of these roles. Default empty array. Introduced with [[Version 4.5.7]].

;role__not_in : An array of role names to exclude. Users matching one or more of these roles will not be included in results. Default empty array. Introduced with [[Version 4.5.7]].

== Examples ==

=== Dropdown with Submit Button ===

Displays a users dropdown list in HTML form with a submit button.

 &lt;li id="users"&gt;
  &lt;h2&gt;<?php _e( 'users:' ); ?>&lt;/h2&gt;
    &lt;form action="<?php bloginfo( 'url' ); ?>" method="get"&gt;
    <?php wp_dropdown_users( array( 'name' => 'author' ) ); ?>
    &lt;input type="submit" name="submit" value="view" /&gt;
    &lt;/form&gt;
 &lt;/li&gt;

== Change Log ==

Since: [[Version 2.3|2.3.0]]

== Source File ==

<tt>wp_dropdown_users()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/user.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Lists Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]