{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/wp delete object term relationships}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/wp delete object term relationships}}
}}

== Description ==

Will unlink the object from the [[Taxonomies | taxonomy]] or taxonomies.
Will remove all relationships between the object and any terms in a particular taxonomy or taxonomies. Does not remove the term or the taxonomy itself.

== Usage ==

%%%<?php wp_delete_object_term_relationships( $object_id, $taxonomies ); ?>%%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$object_id|int|The term Object ID that refers to the term.}}
{{Parameter|$taxonomies|string&#124;array|List of Taxonomy Names or single Taxonomy name.}}

== Return Values ==

This function does not return a value.

== Example ==

Delete all tag relationships for a post:
<pre>
<?php

$post_id = 55;

wp_delete_object_term_relationships( $post_id, 'post_tag' );

// Post 55 now has no tags.

?>
</pre>

Delete multiple taxonomies' relationships for a post:
<pre>
<?php

$post_id = 55;
$taxonomies = array( 'category', 'post_tag', 'custom_taxonomy' );

wp_delete_object_term_relationships( $post_id, $taxonomies );

?>
</pre>

== Notes ==

* Uses: <tt>[[Function_Reference/wp_get_object_terms | wp_get_object_terms()]]</tt> - To get the term taxonomy IDs of all the terms linked to the object.
* Uses: <tt>[[Class_Reference/wpdb | $wpdb->query()]]</tt> - To delete the term relationships.
* Uses: <tt>[[Function_Reference/wp_update_term_count | wp_update_term_count()]]</tt> - To update the term count for the object.
* Uses: <tt>[[Function_Reference/do_action | do_action()]]</tt>:
** Calls <tt>[[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/delete_term_relationships | 'delete_term_relationships']]</tt> with <tt>$object_id</tt> and the array of term taxonomy IDs ''before'' deleting the relationships.
** Calls <tt>[[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/deleted_term_relationships | 'deleted_term_relationships']]</tt> with <tt>$object_id</tt> and the array of term taxonomy IDs ''after'' deleting the relationships.

== Change Log ==

Since: [[Version_2.3 | 2.3.0]]

== Source File ==

<tt>wp_delete_object_term_relationships()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/taxonomy.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Term Tags}}
<tt>[[Function_Reference/wp_remove_object_terms| wp_remove_object_terms()]]</tt>

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]