{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/wp_debug_mode}}
{{it|Riferimento_funzioni/wp_debug_mode}}
}}

== Description ==

Sets PHP error handling and handles WordPress debug mode.

Uses three constants: <tt>[[WP_DEBUG]]</tt>, <tt>WP_DEBUG_DISPLAY</tt>, and <tt>WP_DEBUG_LOG</tt>. All three can be defined in [[Editing wp-config.php|wp-config.php]]. Example:

 define( 'WP_DEBUG', true );

<tt>WP_DEBUG_DISPLAY</tt> and <tt>WP_DEBUG_LOG</tt> perform no function unless <tt>WP_DEBUG</tt> is <tt>true</tt>. <tt>WP_DEBUG</tt> defaults to <tt>false</tt>.

When <tt>WP_DEBUG</tt> is true, all PHP notices are reported. WordPress will also display notices, including one when a [http://codex.wordpress.org/Category:Deprecated_Functions‎ deprecated WordPress function], function argument, or file is used. Deprecated code may be removed from a later version.

It is strongly recommended that plugin and theme developers use <tt>WP_DEBUG</tt> in their development environments.

When <tt>WP_DEBUG_DISPLAY</tt> is true, WordPress will force errors to be displayed. <tt>WP_DEBUG_DISPLAY</tt> defaults to true. Defining it as null prevents WordPress from changing the global configuration setting. Defining <tt>WP_DEBUG_DISPLAY</tt> as false will force errors to be hidden.

When <tt>WP_DEBUG_LOG</tt> is true, errors will be logged to wp-content/debug.log. <tt>WP_DEBUG_LOG</tt> defaults to false.

== Usage ==

%%%<?php wp_debug_mode(); ?>%%%

== Change Log ==

Since: [[Version 3.0|3.0]]

== Source File ==

<tt>wp_debug_mode()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/load.php}}

== Related ==
[[Debugging in WordPress]]

[[Category:Functions]]

[[Category:New_page_created]]