{{#dotorgredirect:https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_explain_nonce/}}

{{Deprecated|new_function=wp_nonce_ays}}
{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/wp_explain_nonce}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/wp_explain_nonce}}
}}
== Description ==

Retrieve [[wikipedia:Cryptographic_nonce|nonce]] action '<tt>Are you sure</tt>' message.

The action is split by verb and noun. The action format is as follows: verb-action_extra. The verb is before the first dash and has the format of letters and no spaces and numbers. The noun is after the dash and before the underscore, if an underscore exists. The noun is also only letters.

The filter will be called for any action, which is not defined by WordPress. You may use the filter for your plugin to explain nonce actions to the user, when they get the "Are you sure?" message. The filter is in the format of '<tt>explain_nonce_$verb-$noun</tt>' with the <tt>$verb</tt> replaced by the found verb and the <tt>$noun</tt> replaced by the found noun. The two parameters that are given to the hook are the localized '<tt>Are you sure you want to do this?</tt>' message with the extra text (the text after the underscore).

== Usage ==
%%%<?php wp_explain_nonce( $action ) ?>%%%
== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$action|string|[[wikipedia:Cryptographic_nonce|Nonce]] action.}}

== Return Values ==

; (string) : Are you sure message.

== Examples ==
<!-- Need creative examples. Feel free to link to external examples. -->

== Notes ==

== Change Log ==

* Deprecated: 3.4.1
* Since: 2.0.4

== Source File ==

<tt>wp_explain_nonce()</tt> was located in {{Trac|wp-includes/functions.php}}. It has been moved to {{Trac|wp-includes/deprecated.php}}

== Related ==

{{Nonce Functions}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]