{{Languages|
{{en|Function_Reference/wp_enqueue_media}}
{{zh-cn|Function_Reference/wp_enqueue_media}}
{{ja|Function_Reference/wp_enqueue_media}}
}}
== Description ==

Enqueues all scripts, styles, settings, and templates necessary to use all media JavaScript APIs.

This function should be called from the <tt>[[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/admin_enqueue_scripts | 'admin_enqueue_scripts']]</tt> action hook, or later. 

== Usage ==

%%%<?php wp_enqueue_media( $args ); ?>%%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$args|array|An array of arguments. Currently only one argument is used, <tt>'post'</tt>, which if passed will be used to set up the scripts for that post. <b>Note:</b> if you do not set this parameter, uploaded files will not be attached to a post. |optional|<tt>array()</tt>}}

== Returns Values ==

This function does not return a value.

== Examples ==

Default usage:

 wp_enqueue_media();

Enqueue the media scripts for a particular post:
<pre>
<?php

$args = array( 'post' => 34 );

wp_enqueue_media( $args );

?>
</pre>

== Notes ==

* Uses: <tt>[[Function_Reference/do_action | do_action()]]</tt> - calls <tt>[[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/wp_enqueue_media | 'wp_enqueue_media']]</tt> after enqueing the media.
* Uses: <tt>[[Function_Reference/did_action | did_action]]( 'wp_enqueue_media' )</tt> - Makes sure that the function is run only once.
* Uses: <tt>[[Function_Reference/apply_filters | apply_filters()]]</tt>:
** Calls <tt>[[Plugin_API/Filter_Reference/media_upload_tabs | 'media_upload_tabs']]</tt> with an array of the old thickbox media tabs to ensure plugins will work. The default tabs will then be reset.
** Calls <tt>[[Plugin_API/Filter_Reference/disable_captions | 'disable_captions']]</tt> to check whether captions should be disabled.
** Calls <tt>[[Plugin_API/Filter_Reference/media_view_settings | 'media_view_settings']]</tt> with the array of settings and the post object.
** Calls <tt>[[Plugin_API/Filter_Reference/media_view_strings | 'media_view_strings']]</tt> with the array of strings used in the media viewer and the post object.
* Uses: wp.media (JavaScript) to call the media uploader
** Documentation: http://www.grafikart.fr/tutoriels/wordpress/wp-media-uploader-403 (French video)

== Change Log ==

Since: [[Version_3.5 | 3.5.0]]

== Source File ==

<tt>wp_enqueue_media()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/media.php}}

== Related ==

{{Enqueue Functions Related}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]

[[Category:New page created]]