{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/wp get object terms}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/wp get object terms}}
}}

== Description ==
Retrieves the terms associated with the given object(s) in the supplied taxonomies.

It should be noted that the results from wp_get_object_terms are not cached which will result in a db call everytime this function is called. For performance, functions like get_the_terms() (which the results of has been cached), should be used.

== Usage ==
%%%<?php wp_get_object_terms( $object_ids, $taxonomies, $args ); ?>%%%

== Parameters ==
{{Parameter|$object_ids|string&#124;array|The id's of objects to retrieve terms for.}}
{{Parameter|$taxonomies|string&#124;array|The [[Taxonomies|taxonomies]] to retrieve terms from. For example: 'category', 'post_tag', 'taxonomy slug'}}
{{Parameter|$args|array&#124;string|Change what is returned|optional|array}}

=== Default Arguments ===
 $args = array('orderby' => 'name', 'order' => 'ASC', 'fields' => 'all');

=== Argument Options ===

The following information has to do with the <tt>$args</tt> parameter and for what can be contained in the string or array of that parameter, if it exists.

; order : (''string'')
:* <tt>ASC</tt> - Default
:* <tt>DESC</tt>

; orderby : (''string'')
:* <tt>name</tt> - Default
:* <tt>count</tt>
:* <tt>slug</tt>
:* <tt>term_group</tt>
:* <tt>term_order</tt>
:* <tt>term_id</tt>
:* <tt>none</tt>

; fields : (''string'')
:* <tt>all</tt> - Default : all matching term's objects will be returned
:* <tt>ids</tt> : term's ids will be returned
:* <tt>names</tt> : term's names will be returned
:* <tt>slugs</tt> : term's slugs will be returned
:* <tt>all_with_object_id</tt> : all matching term's objects will be returned
:* <tt>tt_ids</tt> : term's taxonomy's ids will be returned

'''NOTE''': Arguments are passed in the format used by [[Function_Reference/wp_parse_args|wp_parse_args()]]. e.g.

== Return Values ==
; (array&#124;WP_Error) : Array of requested term objects, or empty array, if no terms found. WP_Error if <tt>$taxonomy</tt> does not exist. See [[Function_Reference/is_wp_error|is_wp_error()]] for more information.

== Examples ==
<!-- Need creative examples. Feel free to link to external examples. -->
Return a list of all 'product' taxonomy terms that are applied to <tt>$post</tt>:
<pre>$product_terms = wp_get_object_terms( $post->ID,  'product' );
if ( ! empty( $product_terms ) ) {
	if ( ! is_wp_error( $product_terms ) ) {
		echo '<ul>';
			foreach( $product_terms as $term ) {
				echo '<li><a href="' . get_term_link( $term->slug, 'product' ) . '">' . esc_html( $term->name ) . '</a></li>'; 
			}
		echo '</ul>';
	}
}</pre>

== Notes ==
* Uses global: (<tt>object</tt>) [[Class Reference/wpdb|<tt>$wpdb</tt>]]
* May return [[Function_Reference/WP_Error|<tt>WP_Error</tt>]] object.

== Change Log ==
Since: 2.3.0

== Source File ==
<!-- Need links to current source code files -->
<tt>wp_get_object_terms()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/taxonomy.php}}.

== Related ==
{{Term Tags}}
{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]
[[Category:New_page_created]]