{{#dotorgredirect:https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_get_sites/}}

{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/wp_get_sites}}
}}

== Description ==

Return an array of sites in a WordPress Multisite network.

== Usage ==

%%% <?php wp_get_sites( $args ); ?> %%%

===Default Usage===

<pre>
<?php $args = array(
    'network_id' => $wpdb->siteid,
    'public'     => null,
    'archived'   => null,
    'mature'     => null,
    'spam'       => null,
    'deleted'    => null,
    'limit'      => 100,
    'offset'     => 0,
); ?>
</pre>

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$args|array|An array of arguments.|optional|null}}

== Return == 

Returns an <tt>array</tt> containing the sites in the network, or an empty <tt>array</tt> on failure.

== Examples ==
=== Basic Example ===
if you specify null to the 'network_id' then all site infomation in the network are returned.
<pre>
<?php 
$args = array(
    'network_id' => null,
    'public'     => null,
    'archived'   => null,
    'mature'     => null,
    'spam'       => null,
    'deleted'    => null,
    'limit'      => 100,
    'offset'     => 0,
); 
$array = wp_get_sites( $args );
print_r ($array);
?>
</pre>

Example of the array returned:
<pre>
Array(
    [0] => Array(
        [blog_id] => 1
        [site_id] => 1
        [domain] => example.com
        [path] => /
        [registered] => 2013-11-08 17:56:46
        [last_updated] => 2013-11-08 18:57:19
        [public] => 1
        [archived] => 0
        [mature] => 0
        [spam] => 0
        [deleted] => 0
        [lang_id] => 0
    )

    [1] => Array(
        [blog_id] => 2
        [site_id] => 1
        [domain] => example.com
        [path] => /examplesubsite/
        [registered] => 2013-11-08 18:07:22
        [last_updated] => 2013-11-08 18:13:40
        [public] => 1
        [archived] => 0
        [mature] => 0
        [spam] => 0
        [deleted] => 0
        [lang_id] => 0
    )
)
</pre>

If you specify '1' to the 'network_id' then the array that include only the first element is returned.

== Notes ==

If [[Function_Reference/wp_is_large_network|wp_is_large_network()]] returns <tt>TRUE</tt>, <tt>wp_get_sites()</tt> will return an empty array.  By default <tt>wp_is_large_network()</tt> returns <tt>TRUE</tt> if there are 10,000 or more sites in your network. This can be filtered using the [[Plugin_API/Filter_Reference/wp_is_large_network|wp_is_large_network]] filter.

Each site's <tt>array</tt> is composed entirely of <tt>string</tt> values, even for numeric values. This means that <tt>==</tt> or <tt>!=</tt>, not <tt>===</tt> or <tt>!==</tt>, should be used to compare <tt>[blog_id]</tt> to [[Function_Reference/get_current_blog_id|get_current_blog_id()]], which returns an <tt>integer</tt> value.

== Change Log ==

Since: [[Version 3.7 | 3.7]]

== Source File ==

<tt>wp_get_sites()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/ms-functions.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Multisite Blog Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]