{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/wp_get_linksbyname}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/wp_get_linksbyname}}
}}

{{Deprecated}}
== Description ==

Displays links associated with the named link category.  This tag uses the settings you specify in the [[Links Manager]].  For control over the formatting and display of your links within the tag's parameters, see [[Template Tags/get_linksbyname|get_linksbyname()]].

== Replace With ==

[[Template_Tags/wp_list_bookmarks|wp_list_bookmarks()]].

== Usage ==

%%% <?php wp_get_linksbyname('category','arguments'); ?> %%%

== Examples ==

===Default Usage===

By default, the tag shows:

* All categories if none are specified
* All category links are shown
* Puts a line break after the link item
* Puts a space between the image and link (if one is included)
* Shows link images if available
* List sorted by ID
* Shows the link description
* Does not show the rating
* With no limit listed, it shows all links
* Does not show the updated timestamp

 <?php wp_get_linksbyname(); ?>

List all links in the Link Category called "Favorites".

 <?php wp_get_linksbyname('Favorites') ?>

List all links in the Link Category ''Blogroll'', order the links by name, don't show the description, and show last update timestamp.
  
 <?php wp_get_linksbyname('Blogroll','orderby=name&show_description=0&show_updated=1') ?>

== Parameters ==
===category===
; category : (''string'') The name of the category whose links will be displayed. No default.
===arguments===
; before : (''string'') Text to place before each link. There is no default.
; after : (''string'') Text to place after each link. Defaults to <tt>'&lt;br /&gt;'</tt>.
; between : (''string'') Text to place between each link/image and its description. Defaults to <tt>' '</tt> (space).
; show_images : (''boolean'') Should images for links be shown.
:* <tt>1</tt> (True - default)
:* <tt>0</tt> (False)
; orderby : (''string'') Value to sort links on. Valid options:
:* <tt>'id'</tt> (default)
:* <tt>'url'</tt>
:* <tt>'name'</tt>
:* <tt>'target'</tt>
:* <tt>'category'</tt>
:* <tt>'description'</tt>
:* <tt>'owner'</tt> - User who added link through Links Manager.
:* <tt>'rating'</tt>
:* <tt>'updated'</tt>
:* <tt>'rel'</tt> - Link relationship (XFN).
:* <tt>'notes'</tt>
:* <tt>'rss'</tt>
:* <tt>'length'</tt> - The length of the link name, shortest to longest.
: '''Prefixing any of the above options with an underscore (ex: '''<tt>'_id'</tt>''') sorts links in reverse order.'''
:* <tt>'rand'</tt> - Display links in random order.
; show_description : (''boolean'') Display the description. Valid if '''show_images''' is <tt>FALSE</tt> or an image is not defined. 
:* <tt>1</tt> (True - default)
:* <tt>0</tt> (False)
; show_rating : (''boolean'') Should rating stars/characters be displayed.
:* <tt>1</tt> (True)
:* <tt>0</tt> (False - default)
; limit : (''integer'') Maximum number of links to display. Defaults to <tt>-1</tt> (all links).
; show_updated : (''boolean'') Should the last updated timestamp be displayed. 
:* <tt>1</tt> (True)
:* <tt>0</tt> (False - default)
; echo : (''boolean'') Display the Links list (1 - true) or return the list to be used in PHP (0 - false). Defaults to 1.
:* <tt>1</tt> (True - default)
:* <tt>0</tt> (False)

== Related ==

{{Bookmark Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]