{{Languages|
{{en|Template Tags/wp_get_archives}}
{{id|Tag Templat/wp_get_archives}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/wp_get_archives}}
}}

== Description ==

This function displays a date-based archives list. This tag can be used anywhere within a template.

== Usage ==

%%% <?php wp_get_archives( $args ); ?> %%%

===Default Usage===
<pre><?php $args = array(
	'type'            => 'monthly',
	'limit'           => '',
	'format'          => 'html', 
	'before'          => '',
	'after'           => '',
	'show_post_count' => false,
	'echo'            => 1,
	'order'           => 'DESC',
        'post_type'     => 'post'
);
wp_get_archives( $args ); ?></pre>

By default, the usage shows:
* Monthly archives links displayed
* Displays all archives (not limited in number)
* Displays archives in an <nowiki><li></nowiki> HTML list in descending order
* Nothing displayed before or after each link
* Does not display the count of the number of posts

== Parameters ==

; type : (''string'') The type of archive list to display. Defaults to WordPress settings. Valid values:
:* <tt>yearly</tt>
:* <tt>monthly</tt> - Default
:* <tt>daily</tt>
:* <tt>weekly</tt>
:* <tt>postbypost</tt> (posts ordered by post date)
:* <tt>alpha</tt> (same as <tt>postbypost</tt> but posts are ordered by post title)

; limit : (''integer'') Number of archives to get. Default is no limit.

; format : (''string'') Format for the archive list. Valid values:
:* <tt>html</tt> - In HTML list (&lt;li&gt;) tags and '''before''' and '''after''' strings. This is the default.
:* <tt>option</tt> - In select (&lt;select&gt;) or dropdown option (&lt;option&gt;) tags.
:* <tt>link</tt> - Within link (&lt;link&gt;) tags. 
:* <tt>custom</tt> - Custom list using the '''before''' and '''after''' strings.

; before : (''string'') Text to place before the link when using the <tt>html</tt> or <tt>custom</tt> for '''format''' option. There is no default.

; after : (''string'') Text to place after the link when using the <tt>html</tt> or <tt>custom</tt> for '''format''' option. There is no default.

; show_post_count : (''boolean'') Display number of posts in an archive or do not. For use with all '''type''' except <tt>'postbypost'</tt>.
:* <tt>1 (True)</tt>
:* <tt>0 (False)</tt> - Default

; echo : (''boolean'') Display the output or return it.
:* <tt>1 (True)</tt> - Default
:* <tt>0 (False)</tt>

; order : (''string'') How to order the link list (since [[Version 3.5]])
:* <tt>ASC</tt> - Ascending order (A-Z).
:* <tt>DESC</tt> - Descending order (Z-A) - Default

; post_type : ("string") Limit archives to a post type. Default is 'post'. (since [[Version 4.4]])

== Examples ==

<pre>
<?php 
$my_archives=wp_get_archives(array(
	'type'=>'alpha', 
	'show_post_count'=>true, 
	'limit'=>20, 
	'post_type'=>'post', 
	'format'=>'html' 
));
	
print_r($my_archives); 

?></pre>

===Last Twelve Months===

Displays archive list by month, displaying only the last twelve months that have posts.

<pre><?php wp_get_archives( array( 'type' => 'monthly', 'limit' => 12 ) ); ?></pre>

===Last Sixteen Days===

Displays archive list by date, displaying only the last sixteen days.

<pre><?php wp_get_archives( array( 'type' => 'daily', 'limit' => 16) ); ?></pre>

===Last Twenty Posts===

Displays archive list of the last twenty most recent posts listed by post title.

<pre><?php wp_get_archives( array( 'type' => 'postbypost', 'limit' => 20, 'format' => 'custom' ) ); ?></pre>

===Dropdown Box===
Displays a drop-down box of monthly archives, in select tags, with the post count displayed. 
<pre>
<select name="archive-dropdown" onchange="document.location.href=this.options[this.selectedIndex].value;">
  <option value=""><?php echo esc_attr( __( 'Select Month' ) ); ?></option> 
  <?php wp_get_archives( array( 'type' => 'monthly', 'format' => 'option', 'show_post_count' => 1 ) ); ?>
</select>
</pre>

===To display the *ALL* posts alphabetically===
Displays ALL posts alphabetically, especially if you want to have an archive that serves like a sitemap.
<pre>
<?php wp_get_archives('type=alpha'); ?>
</pre>

== Change Log ==

* [[Version 4.4|4.4.0]]: add 'post_type' parameter
* [[Version 3.5|3.5.0]]: add 'order' parameter
* Since: [[Version 1.2|1.2.0]]

== Source File ==

<tt>wp_get_archives()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/general-template.php|tags/4.9.2|1703}}.

== Related ==

{{Lists Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]