== Description ==
Retrieve supported and filtered Cron recurrences.

The supported recurrences are '<tt>hourly</tt>', '<tt>twicedaily</tt>', and '<tt>daily</tt>'. A plugin may add more by hooking into the '<tt>cron_schedules</tt>' filter. The filter accepts an array of arrays. The outer array has a key that is the name of the schedule or for example '<tt>weekly</tt>'. The value is an array with two keys, one is '<tt>interval</tt>' and the other is '<tt>display</tt>'.

The '<tt>interval</tt>' is a number in seconds of when the cron job should run. So for '<tt>hourly</tt>', the time is <tt>3600</tt> or <tt>60*60</tt>. For weekly, the value would be <tt>60*60*24*7</tt> or <tt>604800</tt>. The value of '<tt>interval</tt>' would then be <tt>604800</tt>.

== Usage ==
%%%<?php wp_get_schedules(); ?>%%%

== Parameters ==
None.

== Return Values ==

 Array
 (
    [hourly] => Array
        (
            [interval] => 3600
            [display] => Once Hourly
        )
    [twicedaily] => Array
        (
            [interval] => 43200
            [display] => Twice Daily
        )
    [daily] => Array
        (
            [interval] => 86400
            [display] => Once Daily
        )
 )

== Examples ==

=== display ===
The '<tt>display</tt>' is the description. For the '<tt>weekly</tt>' key, the '<tt>display</tt>' would be

 __( 'Once Weekly' );

For your plugin, you will be passed an <tt>array</tt>. You can easily add a new interval schedule by doing the following using the '<tt>cron_schedules</tt>' filter.

<pre>
 add_filter( 'cron_schedules', 'cron_add_weekly' );
 
 function cron_add_weekly( $schedules ) {
 	// Adds once weekly to the existing schedules.
 	$schedules['weekly'] = array(
 		'interval' => 604800,
 		'display' => __( 'Once Weekly' )
 	);
 	return $schedules;
 }
</pre>

<!-- Need creative examples. Feel free to link to external examples. -->

== Notes ==

== Change Log ==
Since: 2.1.0

== Source File ==
<tt>wp_get_schedules()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/cron.php}}.

== Related ==
<!--
    To Do:
    Need to find related functions.
    Need to create groups of functions and create templates to add them to a page quickly.
    Some functions may be related to many groups of functions.
-->
[[Plugin_API/Filter_Reference/cron_schedules]]

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]
[[Category:WP-Cron Functions]]
[[Category:New_page_created]]