{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/wp_insert_category}}
{{it|Riferimento funzioni/wp_insert_category}}
}}
==Description==

Inserts a new category into the taxonomy system.

==Usage==

%%%<?php wp_insert_category( $catarr, $wp_error ); ?>%%%

==Parameters==

{{Parameter|$catarr|array|Category information.}}

:<tt>$catarr</tt> is checked against an array with the following default values:

 $cat_defaults = array(
   'cat_ID' => 0,
   'cat_name' => '',
   'category_description' => '',
   'category_nicename' => '',
   'category_parent' => '',
   'taxonomy' => 'category' );

:<tt>$catarr</tt> may contain additional values, but it is recommended that you provide at least the minimum of those defined in <tt>$cat_defaults</tt>. Note that <tt>category_parent</tt> is a category ID.

:The <tt>cat_ID</tt> drives only the update and not the creation. If it's set, the function considers the call as an update of an existing category, the category <tt>cat_ID</tt>. Otherwise it's a category creation.

{{Parameter|$wp_error|boolean|Whether to return  a [[Function Reference/WP_Error|WP_Error]] or a boolean. Boolean by default.|optional|false}}

==Return Values==

; <tt>(boolean | WP_Error | int)</tt> : On success returns the Category ID assigned to the new category or the original Category ID if it was an update. On failure returns false or a WP_Error if the second parameter (wp_error) is true.

==Examples==

To insert a new category use:

<pre>
%%%//Define the category
$my_cat = array('cat_name' => 'My Category', 'category_description' => 'A Cool Category', 'category_nicename' => 'category-slug', 'category_parent' => '');

// Create the category
$my_cat_id = wp_insert_category($my_cat);
</pre>

==Notes==

* Not all possible members of the <tt>$catarr</tt> array are listed here.
* See <tt>[[Function Reference/wp_create_category|wp_create_category()]]</tt> for a simpler version which takes just a string instead of an array.

==Source File==

<tt>wp_insert_category()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-admin/includes/taxonomy.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]