{{Languages|
{{en|Template Tags/wp_link_pages}}
{{id|Tag Templat/wp_link_pages}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/wp_link_pages}}
}}

== Description ==

Displays page-links for paginated posts (i.e. includes the <code>&lt;!--nextpage--&gt;</code> [[Write_Post_SubPanel#Quicktags | Quicktag]] one or more times). This works in much the same way as [[Template_Tags/link_pages|link_pages()]] (deprecated), the difference being that arguments are given in query string format. This tag must be within [[The_Loop]].

== Usage ==

%%% <?php wp_link_pages( $args ); ?> %%%

=== Default Usage ===

<pre>
<?php
 	$defaults = array(
		'before'           => '<p>' . __( 'Pages:', 'twentyfourteen' ),
		'after'            => '</p>',
		'link_before'      => '',
		'link_after'       => '',
		'next_or_number'   => 'number',
		'separator'        => ' ',
		'nextpagelink'     => __( 'Next page', 'twentyfourteen'),
		'previouspagelink' => __( 'Previous page', 'twentyfourteen' ),
		'pagelink'         => '%',
		'echo'             => 1
	);
 
        wp_link_pages( $defaults );

?>
</pre>

== Parameters ==

; before : (''string'') Text to put before all the links. Defaults to <tt>&lt;p&gt;Pages:</tt>.

; after : (''string'') Text to put after all the links. Defaults to <tt>&lt;/p&gt;</tt>.

; link_before : (''string'') Text that goes before the <strong>text</strong> of the link. Defaults to <tt>(blank)</tt>. Version 2.7 or later required.

; link_after : (''string'') Text that goes after the <strong>text</strong> of the link. Defaults to <tt>(blank)</tt>. Version 2.7 or later required.

; next_or_number : (''string'') Indicates whether page numbers should be used. Valid values are:
:* <tt>number</tt> (Default) 
:* <tt>next</tt> (Valid in WordPress 1.5 or after)

; separator : (''string'') Text to be used between page numbers (if applicable). Defaults to a single breakable space. (Valid in WordPress 3.6 or after)

; nextpagelink : (''string'') Text for link to next page. Defaults to <tt>Next page</tt>. (Valid in WordPress 1.5 or after)

; previouspagelink: (''string'') Text for link to previous page. Defaults to <tt>Previous page</tt>. (Valid in WordPress 1.5 or after)

; pagelink : (''string'') Format string for page numbers. <tt> % </tt> in the string will be replaced with the number, so <tt>Page %</tt> would generate "Page 1", "Page 2", etc. Defaults to <tt>%</tt>.

; echo : (''boolean'') Toggles whether to echo or return the result. The default is ''true''. Valid values:
:* <tt>1 (True)</tt> - Default
:* <tt>0 (False)</tt>

== Return Values ==
; (mixed) : If <tt>$echo</tt> is set to <tt>true</tt> (default), returns <tt>NULL</tt> and echos the content. If <tt>$echo</tt> is set to <tt>false</tt>, returns formatted output in HTML.

== Examples ==

=== Default Usage ===

Displays page-links by default with paragraph tags before and after, using ''Next page'' and ''Previous page'', listing them with page numbers as ''Page 1, Page 2'' and so on.

 <?php wp_link_pages(); ?>

=== Page-links in Paragraph Tags ===

Displays page-links wrapped in paragraph tags.

 <?php wp_link_pages('before=&lt;p&gt;&after=&lt;/p&gt;&next_or_number=number&pagelink=page %'); ?>

=== Page-links in DIV ===

Displays page-links in DIV for CSS reference as <tt>&lt;div id="page-links"&gt;</tt>.

 <?php wp_link_pages('before=&lt;div id="page-links"&gt;&after=&lt;/div&gt;'); ?>

=== Adding wp_link_pages in content.php ===

This code snippet can be added directly to your content.php or single.php file in the position you want your pagination to display.
<pre>
<?php wp_link_pages( array(
	'before'      => '<div class="page-links"><span class="page-links-title">' . __( 'Pages:', 'twentyfourteen' ) . '</span>',
	'after'       => '</div>',
	'link_before' => '<span>',
	'link_after'  => '</span>',
	) );
?>
</pre>

== Changelog ==

Since: 0.71

== Source File ==

<tt>wp_link_pages()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/post-template.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Pagination}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]