{{Deprecated}}

{{#dotorgredirect: https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_list_cats/}}

{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/wp_list_cats}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/wp_list_cats}}
}}

== Description ==

Displays a list of [[Glossary#Category|Categories]] as links.  When one of those links is clicked, all the posts in that Category will display in the appropriate [[Category Templates|Category Template]] dictated by the [[Template_Hierarchy|Template Hierarchy rules]].  This works in much the same way as [[Template_Tags/list_cats|list_cats()]], the difference being that arguments are given in query string format.

== Replace With ==

* [[Template Tags/wp_list_categories | wp_list_categories()]]

== Usage ==

%%% <?php wp_list_cats('arguments'); ?> %%%

== Parameters ==

; optionall : (''boolean'') Sets whether to display a link to all Categories. Note: This feature no longer works in WordPress 1.5.x and 2.0 but is slated to be added back at Version 2.1. Valid values:
:* <tt>1</tt> (True)
:* <tt>0</tt> (False - default)
; all : (''string'') If optionall is set to 1 (TRUE), this defines the text to be displayed for the link to all Categories. Note: This feature no longer works in WordPress 1.5.x and 2.0 but is slated to be added back at Version 2.1. Defaults to <tt>'All'</tt>.
; sort_column : (''string'') Key to sort options by. Valid values:
:* <tt>ID</tt> (Default)
:* <tt>name</tt>
; sort_order : (''string'') Sort order for options. Valid values:
:* <tt>asc</tt> (Default)
:* <tt>desc</tt>
; file : (''string'') The php file a Category link is to be displayed on. Defaults to <tt>index.php</tt>.
; list : (''boolean'') Sets whether the Categories are enclosed in an unordered list (<nowiki><ul><li></nowiki>). Valid values:
:* <tt>1</tt> (True - default)
:* <tt>0</tt> (False)
; optiondates : (''string'') Sets whether to display the date of the last post in each Category. Valid values:
:* <tt>1</tt> (True, displays [http://php.net/function.date Y-m-d])
:* <tt>0</tt> (False - default)
:* <tt>string</tt> (Eg. <tt>Y-m-d</tt>, [http://php.net/function.date see all available options])
; optioncount : (''boolean'') Sets whether to display a count of posts in each Category. Valid values:
:* <tt>1</tt> (True)
:* <tt>0</tt> (False - default)
; hide_empty : (''boolean'') Sets whether to hide (not display) Categories with no posts. Valid values:
:* <tt>1</tt> (True - default)
:* <tt>0</tt> (False)
; use_desc_for_title : (''boolean'') Sets whether the Category description is displayed as link title (i.e. <tt>&lt;a title="<em>Category Description</em>" href="...</tt>). Valid values:
:* <tt>1</tt> (True - default)
:* <tt>0</tt> (False)
; children : (''boolean'') Sets whether to show children (sub) Categories. Valid values:
:* <tt>1</tt> (True - default)
:* <tt>0</tt> (False)
; child_of : (''integer'') Display only the Categories that are children of this Category (ID number). There is no default.  If this parameter is used, <tt>hide_empty</tt> gets set to False.
; feed : (''string'') Text to display for the link to each Category's [[Glossary#RSS|RSS2]] feed. Default is no text, and no feed displayed.
; feed_image : (''string'') Path/filename for a graphic to act as a link to each Categories' RSS2 feed. Overrides the '''feed''' parameter.
; exclude : (''string'') Sets the Categories to be excluded. This must be in the form of an array (ex: <tt>1, 2, 3</tt>).
; hierarchical : (''boolean'') Sets whether to display child (sub) Categories in a hierarchical (after parent) list. Valid values:
:* <tt>1</tt> (True - default)
:* <tt>0</tt> (False)
:  '''Note: The hierarchical parameter is not available in versions of WordPress prior to 1.5'''

=== Notes on use ===

When the 'list' parameter is set for an unordered list, the wp_list_cats() tag requires an opening and closing <tt>UL</tt> tag, but will automatically list each item as an <tt>LI</tt>.

== Examples ==

===Default Usage===

By default, the tag:
* ''optionall'' - Does not display a link to all Categories
* ''all'' - Text to display for link to all Categories
* ''sort_column'' - Sorts by Category ID
* ''sort_order'' - Sorts in ascending order
* ''file'' - Displays the Categories using the index.php template
* ''list'' - Sets the Categories in an unordered list (<tt>&lt;ul&gt;&lt;li&gt;</tt>)
* ''optioncount'' - Does not display the count of posts within each Category
* ''hide_empty'' - Does not display links to Categories which have no posts
* ''use_desc_for_title'' - Uses the Category description as the link title
* ''children'' - Shows the children (sub-Categories) of every Category listed
* ''hierarchical'' - Displays the children Categories in a hierarchical order under its Category parent

<pre><?php wp_list_cats(); ?></pre>

===Categories With Excludes===

Displays Category links sorted by name, shows # of posts for each Category, and excludes Category IDs 10 and 15 from the list.  
 
 &lt;ul&gt;
 <?php wp_list_cats('sort_column=name&optioncount=1&exclude=10, 15'); ?>
 &lt;/ul&gt;

=== Show Children Only of Category ===

Displays Category links sorted by ID (<tt>sort_column=id</tt>), without showing the number of posts per Category (<tt>optioncount=0</tt>), showing only the sub-Categories titles (<tt>use_desc_for_title=0</tt>), for just the children of Category ID 8 (<tt>child_of=8</tt>).

<pre><?php wp_list_cats('sort_column=id&optioncount=0&use_desc_for_title=0&child_of=8'); ?></pre>

'''Note:''' If there are no posts in a parent Category, that parent Category will not display.

=== Display Categories With RSS Feed Links ===

Displays Category links sorted by name, without showing the number of posts per Category, and displays links to the RSS feed for each Category.

<pre><?php wp_list_cats('sort_column=name&optioncount=0&feed=RSS'); ?></pre>

== Change Log ==

* Since: 0.71
* Deprecated: 2.1
* Replaced By: [[Template Tags/wp_list_categories | wp_list_categories()]]

== Related ==

{{Category Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]