{{Languages|
{{en|Template Tags/wp_list_authors}}
{{tr|Tema_Etiketleri/wp_list_authors}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/wp_list_authors}}
}}

== Description ==
Displays a list of the sites's authors (users), and if the user has authored any posts, the author name is displayed as a link to their posts.  Optionally this tag displays each author's post count and [[Glossary#RSS|RSS]] feed link. 

== Usage ==
%%% <?php wp_list_authors( $args ); ?> %%%

===Default Usage===
%%% <?php $args = array(
	'orderby'       => 'name', 
	'order'         => 'ASC', 
	'number'        => null,
	'optioncount'   => false, 
	'exclude_admin' => true, 
	'show_fullname' => false,
	'hide_empty'    => true,
	'echo'          => true,
	'feed'          => [empty string], 
	'feed_image'    => [empty string],
	'feed_type'     => [empty string],
	'style'         => 'list',
	'html'          => true,
	'exclude'       => [empty string],
	'include'       => [empty string] ); ?> %%%

By default, the usage shows:
* Display in name (display name) order, ascending
* No limit to the number of users displayed 
* Does not display the count of the number of posts
* Excludes the 'admin' author from the list
* Displays the author "Display name publicly as"
* Excludes users with no posts
* Display the results
* No author feed text, image, or feed type is defined
* The style is in list format
* Items are returned with valid HTML
* No authors excluded/included

== Parameters ==
; orderby : (''string'') Field to use to sort the results.  This argument was introduced in [[Version 3.1]]. Valid values::
:* <tt>name</tt> - display_name from users table - default
:* <tt>email</tt> - user_email from users table
:* <tt>url</tt> - user_url from users table
:* <tt>registered</tt> - user_registered date from users table
:* <tt>id</tt> - ID from users table
:* <tt>user_login</tt> - user_login from users table
:* <tt>post_count</tt> - based on number of posts by user

; order : (''string'') Order of results either ascending or descending.  This argument was introduced in [[Version 3.1]].  Valid values::
:* <tt>ASC</tt> - default
:* <tt>DESC</tt> 

; number : (''integer'') The maximum number of users to display.  By default there is no limit to the number of users displayed.  This argument was introduced in [[Version 3.1]].

; optioncount : (''boolean'') Display number of published posts by each author. Valid values:
:* <tt>1</tt> (true)
:* <tt>0</tt> (false) - default 

; exclude_admin : (''boolean'') Exclude the 'admin' (login is admin) account from the list. Valid values:
:* <tt>1</tt> (true) - default
:* <code>0</code> (false) 

; show_fullname : (''boolean'') Display the full (first and last) name of the authors. If false, the "Display name publicly as" is displayed. Valid values:
:* <tt>1</tt> (true)
:* <tt>0</tt> (false) - default 

; hide_empty : (''boolean'') Do not display authors with 0 posts. Valid values:
:* <tt>1</tt> (true) - default
:* <tt>0</tt> (false) 

; echo : (''boolean'') Display the results. Valid values:
:* <tt>1</tt> (true) - default
:* <tt>0</tt> (false) 

; feed : (''string'') Text to display for a link to each author's RSS feed. Default is no text, and no feed displayed.

; feed_image : (''string'') Path/filename for a graphic. This acts as a link to each author's RSS feed, and overrides the '''feed''' parameter.

; feed_type : (''string'') The type of feed..  An empty string is the default.  Valid values:
:* <tt></tt> - default. 
:* <tt>rss2</tt>
:* <tt>atom</tt>
:* <tt>rss</tt>
:* <tt>rdf</tt>

; style : (''string'') Style in which to display the author list.   A value of ''list'', the default, displays the authors as an unordered list, while ''none'' generates no special display method (the list items are separated by comma).  If '''html''' is false, this option is ignored.  Valid values:
:* <tt>list</tt> - default.
:* <tt>none</tt>

; html : (''boolean'') Whether to list the items in html or plaintext. The default setting is ''true''.  If '''html''' is false, the '''style''' setting is ignored and the items are returned, separated by comma.  Valid values:
:* <tt>1</tt> (true) - default
:* <tt>0</tt> (false)

; exclude : (''array'') Exclude one or more authors from the results. This parameter takes a comma-separated list of authors ids.  This argument was introduced in [[Version 3.9]].

; include : (''array'') Include one or more authors from the results. This parameter takes a comma-separated list of authors ids.  This argument was introduced in [[Version 3.9]].

== Examples ==
=== Authors Full Names and Number of Posts ===
This example displays a list of the site's authors with the full name (first and last name) plus the number of posts for each author.  Note the output is in descending order by the post count, and limited to three (3) authors/users.  Also, and by default, it excludes the admin author, hides authors with no posts, and does not display the RSS feed or image.

%%%<?php wp_list_authors('show_fullname=1&optioncount=1&orderby=post_count&order=DESC&number=3'); ?>%%%

<div style="border:1px solid blue; width:50%; padding:10px">Andrew Anderson (48)<br />
Harriett Smith (42)<br />
Sally Smith (29)</div>

== Change Log ==
* Since: 1.2.0
* [[Version 2.8|2.8]] : Added the '<code>style</code>' and '<code>html</code>' parameters.
* [[Version 3.1|3.1]] : Added the '<code>orderby</code>', '<code>order</code>', and '<code>number</code>' parameters.
* [[Version 3.9|3.9]] : Added the '<code>include</code>' and '<code>exclude</code>' parameters.

== Source File ==
<tt>wp_list_authors()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/author-template.php}}.

== Related ==
{{Author Tags}}

{{Lists Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]