== Description ==
Adds a new comment to the database. 

Filters new comment to ensure that the fields are sanitized and valid before inserting comment into database. Calls <tt>'comment_post'</tt> action with comment ID and whether comment is approved by WordPress. Also has <tt>'preprocess_comment'</tt> filter for processing the comment data before the function handles it. 

== Usage ==
%%%<?php wp_new_comment( $commentdata, $avoid_die = false ) ?>%%%

== Parameters ==
{{Parameter|$commentdata|array|Contains information on the comment.}}
{{Parameter|$avoid_die |boolean|Should errors be returned as WP_Error objects instead of executing wp_die()? Default false.}}

== Return Values ==
; <tt>(integer)</tt> : The ID of the comment after adding.

== Examples ==
<!-- Added a detailed example, read the proof please -->
<pre>
global $post, $current_user; //for this example only :)

$commentdata = array(
	'comment_post_ID' => $post->ID, // to which post the comment will show up
	'comment_author' => 'Another Someone', //fixed value - can be dynamic 
	'comment_author_email' => 'someone@example.com', //fixed value - can be dynamic 
	'comment_author_url' => 'http://example.com', //fixed value - can be dynamic 
	'comment_content' => 'Comment messsage...', //fixed value - can be dynamic 
	'comment_type' => '', //empty for regular comments, 'pingback' for pingbacks, 'trackback' for trackbacks
	'comment_parent' => 0, //0 if it's not a reply to another comment; if it's a reply, mention the parent comment ID here
	'user_id' => $current_user->ID, //passing current user ID or any predefined as per the demand
);

//Insert new comment and get the comment ID
$comment_id = wp_new_comment( $commentdata );
</pre>

== Notes ==
* Uses: [[Function_Reference/apply_filters|<tt>apply_filters()</tt>]] Calls <tt>'preprocess_comment'</tt> hook on <tt>$commentdata</tt> parameter array before processing
* Uses: [[Function_Reference/do_action|<tt>do_action()</tt>]] Calls <tt>'comment_post'</tt> hook on <tt>$comment_ID</tt> returned from adding the comment and if the comment was approved.
* Uses: [[Function_Reference/wp_filter_comment|<tt>wp_filter_comment()</tt>]] Used to filter comment before adding comment.
* Uses: [[Function_Reference/wp_allow_comment|<tt>wp_allow_comment()</tt>]] checks to see if comment is approved.
* Uses: [[Function_Reference/wp_insert_comment|<tt>wp_insert_comment()</tt>]] Does the actual comment insertion to the database.
* Uses: [[Function_Reference/wp_notify_moderator|<tt>wp_notify_moderator()</tt>]]
* Uses: [[Function_Reference/wp_notify_postauthor|<tt>wp_notify_postauthor()</tt>]]
* Uses: [[Function_Reference/wp_get_comment_status|<tt>wp_get_comment_status()</tt>]]

== Change Log ==
Since: 1.5.0

== Source File ==
<!-- Need links to current source code files -->
<tt>wp_new_comment()</tt> is located in  {{Trac|wp-includes/comment.php}}.

== Related ==
<!--
    To Do:
    Need to find related functions.
    Need to create groups of functions and create templates to add them to a page quickly.
    Some functions may be related to many groups of functions.
-->

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]
[[Category:New_page_created]]