{{Languages|
{{en|Function_Reference/wp_notify_postauthor}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/wp_notify_postauthor}}
}}

== Description ==

This function is responsible for sending comment notification emails to the post author whenever a reader leaves a comment. It is pluggable and can be customized using [[Glossary#plugins|plugins]]. 

This function is pluggable using the following filters:

* comment_notification_text
* comment_notification_subject
* comment_notification_headers

If the plugins do not redefine the functions using filters, then the default functionality will be used.

To modify the content of the email that is sent when a reader leaves a comment, you may provide filters for each of the above functions in your plugin.

This function also sanitizes a URL for use in a redirect.

== Usage ==
%%%<?php wp_notify_postauthor( $comment_id ) ?>%%%

== Parameters ==
{{Parameter|$comment_id|integer|Comment ID}}
{{Parameter|$deprecated|string|Deprecated in [[Version 3.8]] and should no longer be used. The comment type either '<tt>comment</tt>' (default), '<tt>trackback</tt>', or '<tt>pingback</tt>'|optional|&#39;&#39;}}

== Return Values ==
; (boolean) : False if user email does not exist. True on completion.

== Examples ==
<!-- Need creative examples. Feel free to link to external examples. -->

== Notes ==
* This function can be replaced via [[Glossary#plugins|plugins]]. If plugins do not redefine these functions, then this will be used instead.
* Uses: [[Function_Reference/apply_filters|<tt>apply_filters()</tt>]] Calls '<tt>allowed_redirect_hosts</tt>' on an array containing WordPress host string and <tt>$location</tt> host string.

== Change Log ==
* [[Version 3.8|3.8.0]]: The comment <tt>$comment_type</tt> parameter was deprecated. See [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/17862 ticket #17862].
* Since: 1.0.0

== Source File ==
<!-- Need links to current source code files -->
<tt>wp_notify_postauthor()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/pluggable.php}}.

== Related ==
<!--
    To Do:
    Need to find related functions.
    Need to create groups of functions and create templates to add them to a page quickly.
    Some functions may be related to many groups of functions.
-->

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]
[[Category:New_page_created]]