{{Languages|
{{en|Function_Reference/wp_remote_get}}
}}

== Description ==

Retrieves a URL using the HTTP '''POST''' method, returning results in an array. Results include HTTP headers and content.

See <tt>[[Function_Reference/wp_remote_get | wp_remote_get()]]</tt> for using the HTTP '''GET''' method.

In many cases you may be better served with [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_safe_remote_post/ wp_safe_remote_post]

NOTE: Request cookies need to be passed as an array of WP_Http_Cookie objects. See example below.

== Usage ==

%%% <?php wp_remote_post( $url, $args ); ?> %%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$url|string|Uniform Resource Locator (URL).}}

{{Parameter|$args|array|Optional. See [[HTTP_API#Other_Arguments]] for argument details. |optional|''method'': POST, ''timeout'': 5, ''redirection'': 5, ''httpversion'': 1.0, ''blocking'': true, ''headers'': array(), ''body'': null, ''cookies'': array()}}

== Return Values ==

; (array|WP_Error) : Array of results including HTTP headers or <tt>[[Class_Reference/WP_Error | WP_Error]]</tt> if the request failed.

<tt>print_r()</tt> results of requesting a simple web page using default arguments:

<pre>
Array
(
    [headers] => Array
        (
            [date] => Thu, 30 Sep 2010 15:16:36 GMT
            [server] => Apache
            [x-powered-by] => PHP/5.3.3
            [x-server] => 10.90.6.243
            [expires] => Thu, 30 Sep 2010 03:16:36 GMT
            [cache-control] => Array
                (
                    [0] => no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate
                    [1] => post-check=0, pre-check=0
                )

            [vary] => Accept-Encoding
            [content-length] => 1641
            [connection] => close
            [content-type] => application/php
        )
    [body] => <html>This is a website!</html>
    [response] => Array
        (
            [code] => 200
            [message] => OK
        )

    [cookies] => Array
        (
        )

)
</pre>

== Examples ==

Post data should be sent in the body as an array. Example passing post data:

<pre>
$response = wp_remote_post( $url, array(
	'method' => 'POST',
	'timeout' => 45,
	'redirection' => 5,
	'httpversion' => '1.0',
	'blocking' => true,
	'headers' => array(),
	'body' => array( 'username' => 'bob', 'password' => '1234xyz' ),
	'cookies' => array()
    )
);

if ( is_wp_error( $response ) ) {
   $error_message = $response->get_error_message();
   echo "Something went wrong: $error_message";
} else {
   echo 'Response:&lt;pre&gt;';
   print_r( $response );
   echo '&lt;/pre&gt;';
}
</pre>

In the example above, <tt>$response['body']</tt> will contain the actual page content returned by the server.

== Change Log ==

* Since: [[Version 2.7|2.7.0]]

== Source File ==

<tt>wp_remote_post()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/http.php}}.

== Related ==

{{HTTP API Tags}}

[[Category:Advanced Topics]]
[[Category:WordPress Development]]
[[Category:Functions]]