{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/wp reset query}}
{{it|Riferimento funzioni/wp reset query}}
{{ja| 関数リファレンス/wp reset query}}
}}

This page was moved to https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_reset_query except above language locator.

<!--
__TOC__
==Description==

wp_reset_query() restores the $wp_query and global post data to the original main query. This function should be called after query_posts(), if you must use that function. As noted in the examples below, it's heavily encouraged to use the [https://codex.wordpress.org/Plugin_API/Action_Reference/pre_get_posts pre_get_posts] filter to alter query parameters before the query is made.

Calling wp_reset_query is not necessary after using WP_Query or get_posts as these don't modify the main query object. Instead use [[wp_reset_postdata]]

==Usage==

%%%<?php wp_reset_query(); ?>%%%

==Parameters==

This function does not accept any parameters.

==Return Values==

This function does not return any values.

==Examples==

The following example shows how to use wp_reset_query() after a custom loop. Note that the loop in the example is probably being used in addition to the main loop.
<pre>
<?php

$args = array ( 'post_parent' => 5 );
query_posts( $args );

if ( have_posts() ):
    while ( have_posts() ) :
        the_post();

        // Do stuff with the post content.
        the_title();
        the_permalink(); // Etc.

    endwhile;
else:
    // Insert any content or load a template for no posts found.
endif;

wp_reset_query();

?>
</pre>
<b>query_posts() will change your main query and is not recommended. Only use if <em>absolutely necessary</em> (see [[Function_Reference/query_posts#Caveats|query_posts: Caveats]]).</b> Creating a new instance of [[Class_Reference/WP_Query|WP_Query]] or [[Function_Reference/get_posts|get_posts()]] is preferred for secondary loops. If you would like to modify the main query, use the [[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/pre_get_posts|pre_get_posts]] action. Be sure to put your pre_get_posts filtering in your functions.php file.
<pre>
<?php
query_posts( 'post_parent=5' );
if ( have_posts() ) :
	while ( have_posts() ) : the_post();
		?><a href="<?php the_permalink() ?>"><?php the_title() ?></a><br /><?php
	endwhile;
endif;
wp_reset_query();
?>
</pre>

==Change Log==

* Since: [[Version 2.3|2.3.0]]

==Source File==

<tt>wp_reset_query()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/query.php}}.

==Related==

{{Query Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]

-->