== Description ==

Get extended image metadata, exif or iptc as available.

Retrieves the EXIF metadata aperture, credit, camera, caption, copyright, iso created_timestamp, focal_length, shutter_speed, and title.

The IPTC metadata that is retrieved is APP13, credit, byline, created date and time, caption, copyright, and title. Also includes FNumber, Model, DateTimeDigitized, FocalLength, ISOSpeedRatings, and ExposureTime.

== Usage ==

%%%<?php wp_read_image_metadata( $file ); ?>%%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$file|string||required}}
Must pass in file path to image

== Return Values ==

{{Return||boolean&#124;array|False on failure. Image metadata array on success.}}

The elements returned in the array are:

; <tt>["aperture"]</tt> : (''string'') Set to the EXIF FNumber field.
; <tt>["credit"]</tt> : (''string'') Set to the first non-empty value found by looking through the following fields:
# IPTC Credit field (2#110)
# IPTC Creator field (2#080)
# EXIF Artist field
# EXIF Author field
; <tt>["camera"]</tt> : (''string'') Set to the EXIF Model field.
; <tt>["caption"]</tt> : (''string'') Set to a non-empty value of one of the following fields (see source code for the precise logic involved):
# IPTC Description field (2#120)
# EXIF UserComment field if ["title"] is unset AND EXIF:ImageDescription is less than 80 characters
# EXIF ImageDescription field if ["title"] is set OR EXIF:ImageDescription is more than 80 characters
# EXIF Comments field if ["title"] does not equal EXIF:Comments
; <tt>["created_timestamp"]</tt> : (''string'') Set to the first non-empty value found by looking through the following fields:
# EXIF field DateTimeDigitized
# IPTC Date and Time fields (2#055 and 2#060)
; <tt>["copyright"]</tt> : (''string'') Set to the first non-empty value found by looking through the following fields:
# IPTC Copyright field (2#116)
# EXIF Copyright field
; <tt>["focal_length"]</tt> : (''string'') Set to the EXIF FocalLength field.
; <tt>["iso"]</tt> : (''string'') Set to the EXIF ISOSpeedRatings field.
; <tt>["shutter_speed"]</tt> : (''string'') Set to the EXIF ExposureTime field.
; <tt>["title"]</tt> : (''string'') Set to the first non-empty value found by looking through the following fields:
# IPTC Headline field (2#105)
# IPTC Title field (2#005)
# IPTC Description field (2#120) but only if less than 80 characters
# EXIF Title field
# EXIF ImageDescription field but only if less than 80 characters

The (2#nnn) value shown after each IPTC field (above) is the key of the array returned by PHP's iptcparse function for that particular IPTC field.

== Change Log ==

Since: [[Version 2.5|2.5]]

== Source File ==

<tt>wp_read_image_metadata()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-admin/includes/image.php}}

[[Category:Functions]]

[[Category:New_page_created]]