{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/wp_signon}}
{{it|Riferimento funzioni/wp_signon}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/wp_signon}}
}}

== Description ==

Authenticates a user with option to remember credentials. Replaces deprecated function [[Function_Reference/wp_login|wp_login]].

== Usage ==

%%% <?php wp_signon( $credentials, $secure_cookie ) ?> %%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$credentials|array|User info in order to sign on.|optional}}
{{Parameter|$secure_cookie|boolean|Whether to use secure cookie.|optional}}

'''NOTE:''' If you don't provide $credentials, wp_signon uses the $_POST variable (the keys being "log", "pwd" and "rememberme").

== Return Value ==

; '''(object)''' : Either [[Class_Reference/WP_Error|WP_Error]] on failure, or [[Class_Reference/WP_User|WP_User]] on success.

== Examples ==
This function and action can be placed in functions.php of the theme. 
Using the hook init will make it run before the headers and cookies are sent, so it can set the needed cookie for login.
<pre><nowiki>
function custom_login() {
	$creds = array();
	$creds['user_login'] = 'example';
	$creds['user_password'] = 'plaintextpw';
	$creds['remember'] = true;
	$user = wp_signon( $creds, false );
	if ( is_wp_error($user) )
		echo $user->get_error_message();
}
// run it before the headers and cookies are sent
add_action( 'init', 'custom_login' );
</nowiki></pre>

== Notes ==

*This function sends headers to the page. It must be run before any content is returned.
*This function sets an authentication cookie. Users will not be logged in if it is not sent.

== Change Log ==

Since: 2.5.0

== Source File ==

<tt>wp_signon()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/user.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]