== Description ==
This function can be replaced via [[Glossary#plugins|plugins]]. If plugins do not redefine these functions, then this will be used instead.

Get salt to add to hashes to help prevent attacks.

The secret key is located in two places: the database in case the secret key isn't defined in the second place, which is in the wp-config.php file. If you are going to set the secret key, then you must do so in the [[Editing_wp-config.php|wp-config.php file]].

The secret key in the database is randomly generated and will be appended to the secret key that is in wp-config.php file in some instances. It is important to have the secret key defined or changed in <tt>wp-config.php</tt>.

If you have installed WordPress 2.5 or later, then you will have the <tt>SECRET_KEY</tt> defined in the <tt>wp-config.php</tt> already. You will want to change the value in it because hackers will know what it is. If you have upgraded to WordPress 2.5 or later version from a version before WordPress 2.5, then you should add the constant to your <tt>wp-config.php</tt> file.

Salting passwords helps against tools which has stored hashed values of common dictionary strings. The added values makes it harder to crack if given salt string is not weak.

== Usage ==
%%%<?php wp_salt( $scheme ) ?>%%%

== Parameters ==
{{Parameter|$scheme|string|Type of salt you would like to recall.  Accepts: 'auth', 'secure_auth', 'logged_in', and 'nonce' |optional|'auth'}}

== Return Values ==
; (string) : Salt value from either '<tt>SECRET_KEY</tt>' or '<tt>secret</tt>' option

== Examples ==
<!-- Need creative examples. Feel free to link to external examples. -->

== Notes ==
* This function can be replaced via [[Glossary#plugins|plugins]]. If plugins do not redefine these functions, then this will be used instead.
* See Also: [http://api.wordpress.org/secret-key/1.0/ Create a Secret Key for wp-config.php]
* Uses global: (<tt>unknown</tt>) <tt>$wp_default_secret_key</tt>

== Change Log ==
Since: 2.5

== Source File ==
<tt>wp_salt()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/pluggable.php}}.

== Related ==
<!--
    To Do:
    Need to find related functions.
    Need to create groups of functions and create templates to add them to a page quickly.
    Some functions may be related to many groups of functions.
-->

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]
[[Category:New_page_created]]