{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/wp_set_current_user}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/wp_set_current_user}}
}}

== Description ==
This function can be replaced via [[Glossary#plugins|plugins]]. If plugins do not redefine these functions, then this will be used instead.

Changes the current user by ID or name. 

Set <tt>$id</tt> to null and specify a name if you do not know a user's ID. 

Some WordPress functionality is based on the current user and not based on the signed in user. <tt>wp_set_current_user()</tt> opens the ability to edit and perform actions on users who aren't signed in. 

== Usage ==
%%%<?php wp_set_current_user( $id, $name ); ?>%%%

== Parameters ==
{{Parameter|$id|integer|User ID}}
{{Parameter|$name|string|User's username|optional|&#39;&#39;}}

=== Return Values ===
{{Return|WP_User|object|[[Class_Reference/WP_User|WP_User]] object with the current user}}.

== Examples ==
Note that setting the current user does not log in that user. This example will set the current user and log them in.
%%%$user_id = 12345;
$user = get_user_by( 'id', $user_id ); 
if( $user ) {
	wp_set_current_user( $user_id, $user->user_login );
	wp_set_auth_cookie( $user_id );
	do_action( 'wp_login', $user->user_login );
}%%%
<!-- Need creative examples. Feel free to link to external examples. -->

== Notes ==
* This function can be replaced via [[Glossary#plugins|plugins]]. If plugins do not redefine these functions, then this will be used instead.
* Uses: [[Class_Reference/WP_User|<tt>WP_User</tt>]] object
* Uses: [[Function_Reference/setup_userdata|<tt>setup_userdata()</tt>]]
* Uses: [[Function_Reference/do_action|<tt>do_action()</tt>]] Calls 'set_current_user' hook after setting the current user.

== Change Log ==
Since: 2.0.4

== Source File ==
<tt>wp_set_current_user()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/pluggable.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Current User Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]
[[Category:New_page_created]]