{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/wp_terms_checklist}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/wp_terms_checklist}}
}}


== Description ==

Taxonomy independent version of [[Function_Reference/wp_category_checklist| wp_category_checklist()]]

== Usage ==

%%%<?php wp_terms_checklist( $post_id, $args ); ?>%%%

===Default Usage===

{{Parameter|$post_id|int||optional|0}}

{{Parameter|$args|array||optional|array()}}

<pre>
<?php $args = array(
	'descendants_and_self'  => 0,
	'selected_cats'         => false,
	'popular_cats'          => false,
	'walker'                => null,
	'taxonomy'              => 'category',
	'checked_ontop'         => true,
	'echo'                  => true,
); ?>
</pre>

== Parameters ==

; descendants_and_self : (''boolean'') Display only categories that apply to this post and their children or display all categories.  The default is ''false'' (display all categories). Valid values:
:* <tt>1 (True)</tt>
:* <tt>0 (False)</tt> - Default

; selected_cats : (''array'') Default is 'false', no categories selected by default. However, if $post_id is provided, categories already applied to $post_id are selected by default.  Otherwise, an array of category ids specify which categories should be selected by default in the list.

; popular_cats : (''array'') Default is 'false'.  Shows top 10 categories by count.  Otherwise, an array of categories specify which categories should be shown in the popular categories list.

; walker : (''object'') Walker class to render the list with. Valid values:
:* <tt>object</tt> - an instance of a class that extends one of Walker_Category or [http://codex.wordpress.org/Function_Reference/Walker_Class Walker]
'''Note:''' Defaults to Walker_Category_Checklist, which is located in wp-admin/includes/template.php. However this class may not be defined when wp_terms_checklist is called, so you should be careful if you wish to extend this class.

; taxonomy : (''string'') Taxonomy to return. This parameter added at [[Version 3.0]]. Valid values:
:* <tt>category</tt> - default
:* <tt>taxonomy</tt> - or any registered taxonomy

; checked_ontop : (''boolean'') Display checked categories at the top of the terms list or not.  The default is ''true'' (display checked categories at the top of the terms list). Valid values:
:* <tt>1 (True)</tt> - Default
:* <tt>0 (False)</tt>

; echo : (''boolean'') Whether to echo the generated markup. False to return the markup instead of echoing it. Default true. Valid values:
:* <tt>1 (True)</tt> - Default
:* <tt>0 (False)</tt>

== Change Log ==

Since: [[Version 3.0|3.0]]

== Source File ==

<tt>wp_terms_checklist()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-admin/includes/template.php}}

[[Category:Functions]]

[[Category:New_page_created]]