{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/wp_update_term}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/wp_update_term}}
}}
== Description ==

Update term based on arguments provided.

== Usage ==

%%%<?php wp_update_term( $term_id, $taxonomy, $args )  ?>%%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$term_id|int|The ID of the term.}}
{{Parameter|$taxonomy|string|The context in which to relate the term to the object.}}
{{Parameter|$args|array|An array of term attributes to update.|optional}}

== Return Values ==
; <tt>(array|WP_Error)</tt> : Returns Term ID and Taxonomy Term ID (in an array). Or an WP_Error object.

== Example ==
=== Rename the 'Uncategorized' category in french ===
<pre>
<?php
wp_update_term(1, 'category', array(
  'name' => 'Non Catégorisé',
  'slug' => 'non-categorise'
));
?>
</pre>

== Notes ==

The $args will indiscriminately override all values with the same field name.
Care must be taken to not override important information need to update or update will fail (or perhaps create a new term, neither would be acceptable).

Defaults will set 'alias_of', 'description', 'parent', and 'slug' if not
defined in $args already.

'alias_of' will create a term group, if it doesn't already exist, and update
it for the $term.

If the 'slug' argument in $args is missing, then the 'name' in $args will be
used. It should also be noted that if you set 'slug' and it isn't unique then
a WP_Error will be passed back. If you don't pass any slug, then a unique one
will be created for you.

Any of the following $args will be updated on the term: 

* name
* slug
* term_group
* description
* parent
* alias_of (see above)

== Change Log ==

Since: 2.3.0

== Source File ==

<tt>wp_update_term()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/taxonomy.php}}.

== Related ==
[[Function Reference/wp_insert_term|wp_insert_term]]
{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]
[[Category:New_page_created]]