{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/wptexturize}}
{{it|Riferimento funzioni/wptexturize}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/wptexturize}}
}}

== Description ==

This returns given text with transformations of quotes to smart quotes, apostrophes, dashes, ellipses, the trademark symbol, and the multiplication symbol. 

== Usage ==

%%% <?php wptexturize( $text ); ?> %%%

== Parameters ==
{{Parameter|$text|string|The text to be formatted.}}

== Return Values ==
; (string) : The string replaced with html numeric character references.

== Notes ==

* Text enclosed in the tags <tt><nowiki><pre></nowiki></tt>, <tt><nowiki><code></nowiki></tt>, <tt><nowiki><kbd></nowiki></tt>, <tt><nowiki><style></nowiki></tt>, <tt><nowiki><script></nowiki></tt>, <tt><nowiki> and <tt></nowiki></tt> will be skipped. This list of tags can be changed with the <tt>[[Plugin_API/Filter_Reference/no_texturize_tags|'no_texturize_tags']]</tt> filter.

* Text in the '[code]' shortcode will also be ignored. The list of shortcodes can be changed with the <tt>[[Plugin_API/Filter_Reference/no_texturize_shortcodes|'no_texturize_shortcodes']]</tt> filter.

* The entire function can be turned off with the <tt>[[Plugin_API/Filter_Reference/run_wptexturize|'run_wptexturize']]</tt> filter.

* Do not use this function before the <tt>[[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/init|'init']]</tt> action hook.  All of the settings must be initialized before the first call to wptexturize or it will fail on every subsequent use.

* Opening and closing quotes can be customized in a WordPress translation file. Here are some of the text transformations:

{|
! source text !! transformed text !! symbol name
|-
| "---" || "&#8212;" || em-dash
|-
| " -- " || "&#8212;" || em-dash
|-
| "--" || "&#8211;" || en-dash
|-
| " - " || "&#8211;" || en-dash 
|-
| "..." || "&#8230;" || ellipsis
|-
| `` || &#8220; || opening quote
|-
| "hello || &#8220;hello || opening quote
|-
| 'hello || &#8216;hello || opening quote
|-
| <nowiki>''</nowiki> || &#8221; || closing quote
|-
| world." || world.&#8221; || closing quote
|-
| world.' || world.&#8217; || closing quote
|-
| " (tm)" || " &#8482;" || trademark symbol
|-
| 1234" || 1234&#8243; || double prime symbol
|-
| 1234' || 1234&#8242; || prime symbol
|-
| '99 || &#8217;99 || apostrophe before abbreviated year
|-
| Webster's || Webster&#8217;s || apostrophe in a word
|-
| 1234x1234 || 1234&#215;1234 || multiplication symbol
|-
|}


* There is a small "cockney" list of transformations, as well. They can be replaced if the variable <tt>$wp_cockneyreplace</tt> is defined and contains an associative array with the keys containing the source strings and the values containing the transformed strings. By default the following strings will be transformed:
* 'tain't
* 'twere
* 'twas
* 'tis
* 'twill
* 'til
* 'bout
* 'nuff
* 'round
* 'cause

== Change Log ==
Since: 0.71

In 4.0: wptexturize() and _wptexturize_pushpop_element() were significantly revised to improve performance and to resolve many bugs.  This version also added the run_wptexturize filter to allow a theme or plugin to permanently disable this feature.

== Source File ==
<tt>wptexturize()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/formatting.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Texturization}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]