{{Languages|
{{en|Class_Reference/wpdb/esc_like}}
{{ja|クラスリファレンス/wpdb/esc_like}}
}}

wpdb::esc_like() is a member of [[Class_Reference/wpdb | The wpdb Class]].

== Description ==

Sanitizes <tt>'''$text'''</tt> for use in a LIKE expression of an SQL query.

Note that the string still needs to be SQL escaped with <tt>$wpdb->prepare()</tt> or <tt>esc_sql()</tt>. This needs to be done after using <tt>$wpdb->esc_like()</tt>, to ensure correct and secure slashing of the string.

== Usage ==

%%% <?php $like = $wpdb->esc_like( $text ); ?> %%%

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$text|string|The LIKE argument portion of the SQL query.}}

== Return Value ==

{{Return||string|Escaped value appropriate as a LIKE argument in a SQL query.}}

== Example ==
Try to match a suspicious link to links in comments marked as spam.
<pre>
// Parse a suspicious URL so we can just get the main parts.
$url = parse_url( $suspicious_link );

// Strip out "http://" and any url parameters.
if ( isset( $url['path'] ) ) {
	$link = $url['host'] . $url['path'];
} else {
	$link = $url['host'];
}

global $wpdb;

// First, escape the link for use in a LIKE statement.
$link = $wpdb->esc_like( $link );

// Add wildcards, since we are searching within comment text.
$link = '%' . $link . '%';

// Create a SQL statement with placeholders for the string input.
$sql = 	"
	SELECT COUNT(*)
	FROM $wpdb->comments 
	WHERE (comment_content LIKE %s OR comment_author_url LIKE %s)
		AND comment_approved = 'spam' 
	";

// Prepare the SQL statement so the string input gets escaped for security.
$sql = $wpdb->prepare( $sql, $link, $link );

// Search local spam for comments or author url containing this link.
$matching_comments = $wpdb->get_var( $sql );

echo $matching_comments . ' spam comments found with this link.';
</pre>

== Notes ==
Escapes % (percent) and _ (underscore) and \ (backslash) characters, as they have special meaning in LIKE arguments.
== Change Log ==

* Since: [[Version_4.0|4.0.0]]

== Source File ==

<tt>wpdb::esc_like()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/wp-db.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Esc Tags}}


* Article: [http://make.wordpress.org/core/2014/06/20/like_escape-is-deprecated-in-wordpress-4-0/ | like_escape() is Deprecated in WordPress 4.0 ]

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]