<br />[5:00 PM] <photomatt_lap> howdy
<br />[5:00 PM] <stevecooley> whew
<br />[5:01 PM] <anthonymcg> hi all
<br />[5:01 PM] <gsnedders> hi
<br />[5:01 PM] <gsnedders> error_bot: time
<br />[5:01 PM] <error_bot> gsnedders: 10:01 PM, November 23, 2005
<br />[5:01 PM] <stevecooley> I almost forgot :)
<br />[5:01 PM] <photomatt_lap> me too
<br />[5:01 PM] <anthonymcg> podz only told me 20 mins ago :)
<br />[5:01 PM] <gsnedders> heh. I got in 15 min ago
<br />[5:02 PM] <gsnedders> iCal alarm went off :P
<br />[5:02 PM] <photomatt_lap> I just pulled over
<br />[5:02 PM] <photomatt_lap> to find a starbucks
<br />[5:02 PM] <rboren_lappy> I'm at Deaf Dog.
<br />[5:02 PM] <photomatt_lap> I don't drink coffee, but their wifi is good
<br />[5:02 PM] <gsnedders> :)
<br />[5:03 PM] <stevecooley> Hey, I think I read SF is getting free wifi
<br />[5:03 PM] <photomatt_lap> okay, the codex is loading for me
<br />[5:03 PM] <photomatt_lap> as it's the day before thanksgiving, I don't expect too much today
<br />[5:03 PM] <gsnedders> ...not in the UK...
<br />[5:03 PM] <Podz> yup
<br />[5:04 PM] <photomatt_lap> ah true
<br />[5:04 PM] <Podz> we give thanks /every day/ :p
<br />[5:04 PM] <gsnedders> and David, who posted the only thing, is in the UK
<br />[5:04 PM] <photomatt_lap> haha
<br />[5:04 PM] <photomatt_lap> so the question is how to make getting a WP.com account easier
<br />[5:04 PM] <gsnedders> :)
<br />[5:04 PM] -->| TonySt (n=Tony@unaffiliated/wptony) has joined #wordpress-meetup
<br />[5:04 PM] <photomatt_lap> I think that may have been posted before we opened up registrations?
<br />[5:04 PM] <gsnedders> yeah
<br />[5:04 PM] <gsnedders> 19th
<br />[5:05 PM] <photomatt_lap> well, done!
<br />[5:05 PM] <gsnedders> :)
<br />[5:05 PM] <photomatt_lap> it's as easy as it's ever going to be
<br />[5:05 PM] -->| michel_v (n=tofu@unaffiliated/michelv/x-000000001) has joined #wordpress-meetup
<br />[5:05 PM] -->| shep (n=shep@71-81-196-215.dhcp.stls.mo.charter.com) has joined #wordpress-meetup
<br />[5:05 PM] <michel_v> yo
<br />[5:05 PM] <photomatt_lap> let's talk about 2.0, how are we doing bugwise?
<br />[5:05 PM] <anthonymcg> as a complete noob to this, i was slightly confused on how to get an API key for akismet
<br />[5:06 PM] <gsnedders> photomatt_lap: try scrapping the form, make it easier :)
<br />[5:06 PM] <anthonymcg> i have a wp powered blog so i didn't understand why i had to sign up with wordpress.com to get one
<br />[5:06 PM] -->| mumbles (n=mumbles@cpc2-bror1-6-0-cust74.bmly.cable.ntl.com) has joined #wordpress-meetup
<br />[5:06 PM] <photomatt_lap> anthonymcg: I'm making some changes to both sites to make that clearer
<br />[5:06 PM] <mumbles> right
<br />[5:06 PM] <mumbles> lo even
<br />[5:07 PM] <anthonymcg> thanks, i'm a user since b2 but it was still slightly mystifying
<br />[5:07 PM] <shep> image upload in 2.0 needs a lot of work
<br />[5:07 PM] <photomatt_lap> we have 24 active tickets
<br />[5:07 PM] <photomatt_lap> http://trac.wordpress.org/query?status=new&status=assigned&status=reopened&milestone=2.0
<br />[5:07 PM] <Podz> shep, andy posted that that is being worked on
<br />[5:08 PM] <shep> good
<br />[5:08 PM] -->| alphaoide (n=alphaoid@c-24-126-217-237.hsd1.ca.comcast.net) has joined #wordpress-meetup
<br />[5:08 PM] <mumbles> havent got round to testing 2.0 yet
<br />[5:08 PM] <mumbles> installed will work on it tommow
<br />[5:09 PM] <photomatt_lap> I think it's coming along fairly nicely
<br />[5:10 PM] <photomatt_lap> there are some bugs I want to tackle the next day or two in a turkey-induced haze, then I think it would warrant a beta-3 that's more widely announced
<br />[5:10 PM] -->| davidhouse (n=david@host86-132-143-1.range86-132.btcentralplus.com) has joined #wordpress-meetup
<br />[5:11 PM] <davidhouse> have i missed the meetup?
<br />[5:11 PM] <shep> no
<br />[5:11 PM] <Podz> photomatt - you seem to have a target date ?
<br />[5:11 PM] <shep> but the meetup missed you
<br />[5:11 PM] <photomatt_lap> davidhouse: mostly ;)
<br />[5:11 PM] <davidhouse> ah well.
<br />[5:11 PM] <davidhouse> :)
<br />[5:11 PM] <photomatt_lap> Podz: when it's ready! ;)
<br />[5:12 PM] <Podz> hmm ...... seems to be being rushed a wee bit that's all
<br />[5:12 PM] <shep> photomatt_lap: when is the new wp.org site going up?
<br />[5:12 PM] <photomatt_lap> it is moving quicker than before, but we also have more people devoting more time than any previous release
<br />[5:13 PM] <photomatt_lap> I think this will be the best-tested one yet
<br />[5:13 PM] <photomatt_lap> shep: soonish, maybe with launch
<br />[5:13 PM] <anthonymcg> will the media handling be fully ready for 2.0, yes?
<br />[5:13 PM] <photomatt_lap> I can show you guys a URL I've been playing around with, not for sharing
<br />[5:13 PM] <shep> :)
<br />[5:13 PM] <Podz> matt - this is logged :)
<br />[5:13 PM] <mumbles> whoever has the access can edit ?
<br />[5:14 PM] <photomatt_lap> it's not THAT big a deal, but very unfinished - http://new.wordpress.org/
<br />[5:14 PM] <photomatt_lap> layout errors, PHP errors, and blank pages everywhere
<br />[5:14 PM] <mumbles> looking nice 
<br />[5:14 PM] <photomatt_lap> just starting to truck through it page-by-page
<br />[5:15 PM] <davidhouse> nice :)
<br />[5:15 PM] <anthonymcg> nice look alright
<br />[5:15 PM] <TonySt> very nice
<br />[5:15 PM] <anthonymcg> "state-of-the-art semantic personal publishing platform" - thats a mouthfull :)
<br />[5:15 PM] <gsnedders> i'm not sure about the wordpress announcements at the bottom, almost looks out of place
<br />[5:16 PM] <michel_v> matt: small alignment issue: I think the sidebar's top border should be aligned with the top of the content's letters
<br />[5:16 PM] <mikelittle> The about page seems really light on the left. Maybe put the right content there?
<br />[5:16 PM] <michel_v> that's the top of WordPress is a state of the art's W
<br />[5:16 PM] <TonySt> I'm glad 'Code Is Poetry' survived :-)
<br />[5:16 PM] <photomatt_lap> mikelittle: yep the menus aren't there yet, there will be navigation there
<br />[5:16 PM] <davidhouse> the wordpress announcements bit can get mixed up with the left sidebar when the page is very short
<br />[5:17 PM] <photomatt_lap> the layout hasn't been tested in any browser yet, just trying to get the framework there first
<br />[5:17 PM] <davidhouse> sure,
<br />[5:17 PM] <photomatt_lap> the markup is changing a bit, trying to make it lighter and cleaner
<br />[5:17 PM] <mikelittle> Nice 404
<br />[5:17 PM] <photomatt_lap> though it was pretty minimal before, most WP.org pages are only a few k
<br />[5:18 PM] <photomatt_lap> so stay tuned, it should be more polished by next week
<br />[5:18 PM] <mikelittle> Cool! Looks good.
<br />[5:19 PM] * davidhouse is looking forward to the codex integration
<br />[5:19 PM] <michel_v> I'm not a big fan of orphan links using bold georgia, but overall it's very nice
<br />[5:20 PM] <photomatt_lap> squashing bugs is a bigger priority right now though, I think we can get 2.0 ready for release in early December
<br />[5:20 PM] <davidhouse> just in time for christmas.
<br />[5:21 PM] <davidhouse> the perfect present :)
<br />[5:21 PM] <photomatt_lap> "give WP 2.0 for festivus"
<br />[5:21 PM] <davidhouse> have we got a jazz player to name it after?
<br />[5:21 PM] <photomatt_lap> not yet
<br />[5:22 PM] <shep> christian mcbride!
<br />[5:22 PM] <photomatt_lap> past that, there is a lot to clean up and optimize in the codebase for point releases
<br />[5:22 PM] <shep> charlie hunter!
<br />[5:22 PM] <photomatt_lap> but who knows, there may never be a 3.0. we're already addressing the vast majority of the needs of people out there
<br />[5:22 PM] <davidhouse> you mean we might actually... finish... some software?
<br />[5:22 PM] |<-- rboren_lappy has left irc.freenode.net (Read error: 110 (Connection timed out))
<br />[5:23 PM] <davidhouse> :)
<br />[5:23 PM] * TonySt wonders what happened to 1.7, 1.8, 1.9 ;-)
<br />[5:23 PM] <davidhouse> blogging will evolve. wordpress with it.
<br />[5:23 PM] <gsnedders> the thing is, making it too bloated would take away users... Including myself...
<br />[5:23 PM] <photomatt_lap> I'd rather do one thing really well in WP than adding a ton of functionality only some people use
<br />[5:23 PM] <gsnedders> I'm sure I'm not the only one who would move away
<br />[5:24 PM] <photomatt_lap> I could see related projects though that work well with WP
<br />[5:24 PM] <photomatt_lap> like bbpress will be someday :)
<br />[5:24 PM] <anthonymcg> Whats the one thing matt? :)
<br />[5:25 PM] <photomatt_lap> making it effortless for people write and communicate
<br />[5:25 PM] <anthonymcg> :)
<br />[5:26 PM] <Podz> 'effortless'  ... that'll be ThoughtPress then :)
<br />[5:26 PM] <davidhouse> :)
<br />[5:26 PM] <Podz> def need some delete buttons there!
<br />[5:26 PM] <photomatt_lap> ha!
<br />[5:26 PM] <anthonymcg> "blogging your thoughts instantly"
<br />[5:26 PM] <photomatt_lap> someday
<br />[5:26 PM] <Podz> matt - WorldTour London ?
<br />[5:26 PM] <TonySt> god I hope not
<br />[5:26 PM] <Podz> still on ?
<br />[5:26 PM] <photomatt_lap> still on
<br />[5:26 PM] <anthonymcg> dates?
<br />[5:27 PM] <photomatt_lap> I'm purchasing the tickets soon, so I'll know the exact dates
<br />[5:27 PM] <photomatt_lap> it's still flexible at this point
<br />[5:27 PM] <anthonymcg> u going on to les blogs?
<br />[5:27 PM] <photomatt_lap> yes
<br />[5:27 PM] <anthonymcg> grand, can u let us know when u book em or have dates
<br />[5:27 PM] <photomatt_lap> which is the 5th and 6th
<br />[5:28 PM] <anthonymcg> i may be flying in from dublin
<br />[5:28 PM] <photomatt_lap> so I'll most likely be in paris from the 2-7
<br />[5:28 PM] <mumbles> of july ?
<br />[5:28 PM] <photomatt_lap> of december
<br />[5:28 PM] <gsnedders> WorldTour London? what?
<br />[5:28 PM] <mumbles> ah 
<br />[5:28 PM] <anthonymcg> london before paris or vice versa?
<br />[5:28 PM] <mumbles> crap on a workday 
<br />[5:28 PM] <anthonymcg> :)
<br />[5:29 PM] <photomatt_lap> on the 7th I could fly to london and finish out the week there. do any of those evenings work well for a WP meetup?
<br />[5:29 PM] <gsnedders> on a schoolday..
<br />[5:29 PM] <gsnedders> in scotland :P
<br />[5:29 PM] <photomatt_lap> any good venues londoners could suggest?
<br />[5:29 PM] <davidhouse> right. i'm out :) enjoy the rest of meetup.
<br />[5:29 PM] <photomatt_lap> it could be that weekend
<br />[5:29 PM] <--| davidhouse has left #wordpress-meetup ("Kopete 0.10 : http://kopete.kde.org")
<br />[5:29 PM] <mumbles> could make any eaviningt
<br />[5:30 PM] <photomatt_lap> Podz, mikelittle: any thoughts?
<br />[5:30 PM] <mikelittle> I would def try to get there weekend would be ideal, else I would have to take a day off work.
<br />[5:30 PM] <mikelittle> I don't know london at all to suggest venues.
<br />[5:30 PM] <photomatt_lap> it'd be great to get as many of the WP regulars there as possible
<br />[5:30 PM] <Podz> weekend is bound to be better
<br />[5:31 PM] <photomatt_lap> I believe there is already a geek dinner on the 10th
<br />[5:31 PM] <Podz> mikelittle, a few comments here: http://www.tamba2.org.uk/T2/archives/2005/09/28/wordpress-london/#comments
<br />[5:31 PM] <anthonymcg> you beat me to that podz, was just about to paste the link
<br />[5:32 PM] <shep> Podz: you pay for my ticket, i'll pay for your dinner :)
<br />[5:32 PM] <gsnedders> somebody want to try and get me down from scotland? :P
<br />[5:32 PM] <photomatt_lap> maybe a meal around 7ish, then drinks from 9 on
<br />[5:32 PM] <anthonymcg> i'd suggest a sledge
<br />[5:33 PM] =-= TonySt is now known as Tony`
<br />[5:33 PM] <mumbles> rememebers to saveup for an eavning out
<br />[5:34 PM] <mikelittle> I'm teetotal, but have no preference for type of venue. Meal, drinks, I'm easy.
<br />[5:34 PM] <photomatt_lap> so it'd be friday the 9th or sunday the 11th
<br />[5:34 PM] <Podz> matt - either you choose or we make it a vote from attendees ?
<br />[5:35 PM] <mumbles> would perfer it to not be a sunday 
<br />[5:35 PM] <mumbles> because i have work 
<br />[5:35 PM] <photomatt_lap> sounds like requirements are: venue with space in case people show up, non-alcoholic options, and not too expensive
<br />[5:35 PM] <anthonymcg> me too, work monday in dublin
<br />[5:35 PM] <mikelittle> Either for me, I have some leave time to use up. if its Friday.
<br />[5:35 PM] <mumbles> friday would be better
<br />[5:35 PM] <anthonymcg> someone want to lead on venue search so?
<br />[5:35 PM] <mumbles> got thersday and friday off work 
<br />[5:36 PM] <mumbles> don't really know london venues 
<br />[5:36 PM] * Tony` surfs maps.google.com
<br />[5:36 PM] <Podz> anthonymcg, trocadero ! Video games +++
<br />[5:37 PM] <michel_v> \o/ girlfriend just got a wp.com! except she won't blog yet
<br />[5:37 PM] <gsnedders> :P
<br />[5:37 PM] <photomatt_lap> michel_v: nice :)
<br />[5:37 PM] <Podz> anthonymcg, I'll continue the thread on that entry above, see what arrives
<br />[5:37 PM] <michel_v> "michel_v got me drunk, dancing & blogging again
<br />[5:37 PM] <michel_v> Just another WordPress.com weblog"
<br />[5:38 PM] <anthonymcg> good stuff podz
<br />[5:38 PM] <mumbles> Podz:  could be good actaly 
<br />[5:38 PM] <mumbles> and lesver squire is close buy as well 
<br />[5:38 PM] <anthonymcg> we'll revert to matt with a consensus by the weekend?
<br />[5:38 PM] <mumbles> lester 
<br />[5:39 PM] * stevecooley wonders: What is a blog if it's not posted to?
<br />[5:39 PM] <Podz> b__g
<br />[5:39 PM] <Podz> Friday 9th then ? date set ?
<br />[5:40 PM] <michel_v> stevecooley: a placeholder
<br />[5:40 PM] <photomatt_lap> sounds like that date is best
<br />[5:40 PM] <anthonymcg> lapland at the trocadero eh? giggidy
<br />[5:40 PM] <photomatt_lap> so let's set that and just try to figure out the venue
<br />[5:40 PM] <Podz> okay :)
<br />[5:40 PM] <stevecooley> michel_v: fair enough :)
<br />[5:40 PM] <mikelittle> OK
<br />[5:40 PM] <mumbles> drinks + free wireless ?
<br />[5:40 PM] <photomatt_lap> which i will defer entirely to our english wordpressers
<br />[5:41 PM] <photomatt_lap> wireless isn't a show-stopper, worst comes to worst we can just talk to each other instead of using our laptops :)
<br />[5:41 PM] <mumbles> :P would be cool though
<br />[5:41 PM] <mumbles> am asking some english geeks i know
<br />[5:41 PM] <anthonymcg> talk? are u nuts?! :)
<br />[5:41 PM] <mumbles> where in london would you be staying ?
<br />[5:42 PM] <photomatt_lap> mumbles: no plans yte
<br />[5:42 PM] <photomatt_lap> *yet
<br />[5:42 PM] <gsnedders> i don't know of anywhere in London for that kinda meeting :)
<br />[5:42 PM] <michel_v> photomatt_lap: by the way, you coming to Les Blogs?
<br />[5:43 PM] <photomatt_lap> michel_v: indeed
<br />[5:43 PM] <stevecooley> happy thanksgiving, all us americans...  have a nice regular day to the rest of you :)
<br />[5:43 PM] |<-- stevecooley has left irc.freenode.net ()
<br />[5:44 PM] <michel_v> photomatt_lap: we're planning lunch the day before with suw charman, would you be one of us?
<br />[5:44 PM] <photomatt_lap> one last item for the meetup - http://www.flickr.com/photos/pottersys/65965512/
<br />[5:44 PM] <photomatt_lap> michel_v: sounds fun, I'd love to
<br />[5:44 PM] <michel_v> photomatt_lap: I won't be at Les Blogs itself, I'm too broke :p
<br />[5:45 PM] <photomatt_lap> it's overpriced anyway
<br />[5:45 PM] <shep> http://www.flickr.com/photos/pottersys/65965512/
<br />[5:45 PM] <shep> heh
<br />[5:45 PM] <michel_v> I don't know. per american standards, it's standard price
<br />[5:45 PM] <shep> brilliant!
<br />[5:45 PM] <photomatt_lap> and there's a notable lack of non-six apart products represented *cough*
<br />[5:45 PM] <michel_v> but in Europe we make two times less on average
<br />[5:46 PM] <shep> what is the cost?
<br />[5:46 PM] <michel_v> 200 euros for two days
<br />[5:46 PM] <shep> (in US dollars)
<br />[5:46 PM] <michel_v> add the price for whatever cool thing you want to buy that does not exceed 100 dollars
<br />[5:46 PM] <michel_v> and you got the price in dollars
<br />[5:46 PM] <Podz> $234
<br />[5:47 PM] <mumbles> pity not coming to bromley 
<br />[5:47 PM] <anthonymcg> 200 euro?!
<br />[5:47 PM] <mumbles> i know bromley well enough to recommend something;p
<br />[5:48 PM] <photomatt_lap> unless there are nay other pressing matters, we can call it
<br />[5:49 PM] <Podz> none here
<br />[5:49 PM] <photomatt_lap> alright then, </meetup>


[[IRC Meetups|Back to IRC Meetups]]

[[Category:About WordPress]]
[[Category:Meetings]]
[[Category:WordPress Development]]