{{Languages|
{{en|Template Tags/next_posts_link}}
{{ko|Template Tags/next_posts_link}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/next_posts_link}}
}}

== 함수 설명 ==

현재 쿼리 안에서 다음 포스트 집합 링크를 출력합니다.

만약 PHP에서 사용할 값이 필요하다면 [[Function Reference/get_next_posts_link|get_next_posts_link()]] 함수를 사용하세요.
왜냐하면 포스트 쿼리는 보통 역시간 순으로 정렬되어 있습니다. <tt>next_posts_link()</tt> 는 보통 오래 된 엔트리로 향합니다. (집한의 마지막을 향해서) 그리고 <tt>previous_posts_link()</tt>는 보통 새로운 엔트리로 향합니다. (집합의 시작점을 향해서).

== 사용 방법 ==

%%% <?php next_posts_link( $label , $max_pages ); ?> %%%

== 매개변수 ==

{{Parameter|$label|string|링크의 텍스트.|optional|'Next Page &raquo;'}}
{{Parameter|$max_pages|integer|링크가 표시될 페이지의 갯수를 제한합니다. 기본값은 "0" 이며, 제한 없음을 의미합니다.|optional|0}}

== 예제 ==

===기본 사용법===

 <?php next_posts_link(); ?>

===Working example===

 <?php next_posts_link( 'Older Entries &raquo;', 0 ); ?>

===WP_Query로 루프를 쿼리할 때의 사용법 ===
Add the $max_pages parameter to the next_posts_link() function when querying the loop with [[Function_Reference/WP_Query|WP_Query]]. To get the total amount of pages you can use the 'max_num_pages' property of the custom WP_Query object.
<pre><?php
// set the "paged" parameter (use 'page' if the query is on a static front page)
$paged = ( get_query_var( 'paged' ) ) ? get_query_var( 'paged' ) : 1;

// the query
$the_query = new WP_Query( 'cat=1&paged=' . $paged ); 
?>

<?php if ( $the_query->have_posts() ) : ?>

<?php
// the loop
while ( $the_query->have_posts() ) : $the_query->the_post(); 
?>
<?php the_title(); ?>
<?php endwhile; ?>

<?php

// next_posts_link() usage with max_num_pages
next_posts_link( 'Older Entries', $the_query->max_num_pages );
previous_posts_link( 'Newer Entries' );
?>

<?php 
// clean up after the query and pagination
wp_reset_postdata(); 
?>

<?php else:  ?>
<p><?php _e( 'Sorry, no posts matched your criteria.' ); ?></p>
<?php endif; ?></pre>

== Notes ==

* This function will not work (fail silently) if <tt>mysql.trace_mode</tt> is enabled in your <tt>php.ini</tt>. If you can't edit that file, try adding <tt>ini_set( 'mysql.trace_mode', 0 );</tt> to your theme's <tt>functions.php</tt>.

* See also: [[Template Tags/previous_posts_link|previous_posts_link()]] and [[Template Tags/next_post_link|next_post_link()]].

* This function does not work with static pages.

==Resources==
* [http://digwp.com/2009/08/wordpress-page-navigation/ Digging into Wordpress - Definitive Guide to WordPress Page Navigation]

== Change Log ==
Since: 0.71

== Source File ==

<tt>next_posts_link()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/link-template.php}}.

== Related ==
{{Pagination}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]