{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/add_menu}}
{{ru|Справочник по функциям/WP Admin Bar/add_menu}}
}}

== Description ==
Create or add new items into the Admin bar.

This is not a function.  It is a method of the <tt>$wp_admin_bar</tt> global (an instance of [[Class_Reference/WP_Admin_Bar|WP_Admin_Bar]]), which may not exist except during the 'admin_bar_menu' hook.

'''Note''': The Admin Bar is replaced with the [[Toolbar]] since WordPress [[Version 3.3]]. The preferred way to add items to the toolbar is with [[Function_Reference/add_node|add_node()]].

Initial items in the Admin Bar are($menu_id):

*my-account-with-avatar - Dashboard, User settings
*new-content - Short-cut to all custom post types and original ones
*comments - Comments moderation
*appearance - Theme selection and Widgets

== Usage ==
%%%<?php $wp_admin_bar->add_menu( $args ) ?>%%%

== Parameters ==
{{Parameter|$args|array|An array of arguments.}}

=== Arguments ===
{{Parameter|id|string|The ID of the node.|required|false}}
{{Parameter|title|string|The text that will be visible in the Toolbar. Including html tags is allowed.|optional|false}}
{{Parameter|parent|string|The ID of the parent node.|optional|false}}
{{Parameter|href|string|The 'href' attribute for the link. If 'href' is not set the node will be a text node.|optional|false}}
{{Parameter|group|boolean|This will make the node a group (node) if set to 'true'. Group nodes are not visible in the Toolbar, but nodes added to it are. See [[Function_Reference/add_group|add_group()]].|optional|false}}
{{Parameter|meta|array|An array of meta data for the node.|optional|array()}}

:* 'html' - The html used for the node.
:* 'class' - The class attribute for the list item containing the link or text node.
:* 'rel' - The rel attribute.
:* 'onclick' - The onclick attribute for the link. This will only be set if the 'href' argument is present.
:* 'target' - The target attribute for the link. This will only be set if the 'href' argument is present.
:* 'title' - The title attribute. Will be set to the link or to a div containing a text node.
:* 'tabindex' - The tabindex attribute. Will be set to the link or to a div containing a text node.

== Example ==
See: [[Function Reference/add_node|add_node]]

== Change Log ==

* Since [[Version 3.1]]

== Source File ==
<tt>add_menu()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/class-wp-admin-bar.php}}.

==Resources==
* [http://generatewp.com/toolbar/ WordPress Toolbar Generator]

==Related Articles==
{{Toolbar Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]