{{Languages|
{{en|Template Tags/wp_get_archives}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/wp_get_archives}}
}}

== Deskripsi ==

Fungsi ini menampilkan daftar arsip berdasarkan penanggalan. Tag ini juga bisa digunakan di templat.

== Kegunaan ==

%%% <?php wp_get_archives( $args ); ?> %%%

===Penggunaan Standar===
%%% <?php $args = array(
	'type'            => 'monthly',
	'limit'           => '',
	'format'          => 'html', 
	'before'          => '',
	'after'           => '',
	'show_post_count' => false,
	'echo'            => 1
); ?>%%%

Secara standar, kegunaan fungsi ini adalah:
* Menampiklkan autan arsip berdasarkan bulan
* Menampilkan semua arsip tanpa batas
* Menampilkan arsip dalam bentuk daftar HTML <nowiki><li></nowiki>
* Tidak menampilkan apapun sebelum dan sesudah tautan
* Tidak menampilkan jumlah total tulisan

== Parameter ==

; type : (''string'') The type of archive list to display. Defaults to WordPress settings. Valid values:
:* <tt>yearly</tt>
:* <tt>monthly</tt> - Default
:* <tt>daily</tt>
:* <tt>weekly</tt>
:* <tt>postbypost</tt> (posts ordered by post date)
:* <tt>alpha</tt> (same as <tt>postbypost</tt> but posts are ordered by post title)

; limit : (''integer'') Number of archives to get. Default is no limit.

; format : (''string'') Format for the archive list. Valid values:
:* <tt>html</tt> - In HTML list (&lt;li&gt;) tags and '''before''' and '''after''' strings. This is the default.
:* <tt>option</tt> - In select (&lt;select&gt;) or dropdown option (&lt;option&gt;) tags.
:* <tt>link</tt> - Within link (&lt;link&gt;) tags. 
:* <tt>custom</tt> - Custom list using the '''before''' and '''after''' strings.

; before : (''string'') Text to place before the link when using the <tt>html</tt> or <tt>custom</tt> for '''format''' option. There is no default.

; after : (''string'') Text to place after the link when using the <tt>html</tt> or <tt>custom</tt> for '''format''' option. There is no default.

; show_post_count : (''boolean'') Display number of posts in an archive or do not. For use with all '''type''' except <tt>'postbypost'</tt>.
:* <tt>1 (True)</tt>
:* <tt>0 (False)</tt> - Default

; echo : (''boolean'') Display the output or return it.
:* <tt>1 (True)</tt> - Default
:* <tt>0 (False)</tt>

== Examples ==

===Last Twelve Months===

Displays archive list by month, displaying only the last twelve.

<pre><?php wp_get_archives('type=monthly&limit=12'); ?></pre>

===Last Fifteen Days===

Displays archive list by date, displaying only the last fifteen days.

<pre><?php wp_get_archives('type=daily&limit=15'); ?></pre>

===Last Twenty Posts===

Displays archive list of the last twenty most recent posts listed by post title.

<pre><?php wp_get_archives('type=postbypost&limit=20&format=custom'); ?></pre>

===Dropdown Box===
Displays a drop-down box of monthly archives, in select tags, with the post count displayed. 
<pre>
<select name="archive-dropdown" onchange="document.location.href=this.options[this.selectedIndex].value;">
  <option value=""><?php echo esc_attr( __( 'Select Month' ) ); ?></option> 
  <?php wp_get_archives( 'type=monthly&format=option&show_post_count=1' ); ?>
</select>
</pre>

===To display the *ALL* posts alphabetically===
Displays ALL posts alphabetically, especially if you want to have an archive that serves like a sitemap.
<pre>
<?php wp_get_archives('type=alpha'); ?>
</pre>

== Change Log ==

Since: 1.2.0

== Source File ==

<tt>wp_get_archives()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/general-template.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Lists Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]