{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/get_categories}}
{{ko|Function Reference/get_categories}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/get_categories}}
}}

== 함수 설명 ==

쿼리 매개변수에 부합하는 카테고리 객체의 배열을 반환합니다.

이 함수의 인수들은 [[Template_Tags/wp_list_categories|wp_list_categories]] 함수의 인수들과 매우 흡사합니다. 그리고 매개변수를 전달할 때 쿼리 문법 또는 배열로 넘겨줄 수 있습니다.
<!--The array returned seems to be always flat (no nesting for subcategories) but I'm not sure yet.-->

== 사용 방법 ==

%%% <?php $categories = get_categories( $args ); ?> %%%

=== 기초적인 사용법 ===

<pre><?php 

$args = array(
	'type'                     => 'post',
	'child_of'                 => 0,
	'parent'                   => '',
	'orderby'                  => 'name',
	'order'                    => 'ASC',
	'hide_empty'               => 1,
	'hierarchical'             => 1,
	'exclude'                  => '',
	'include'                  => '',
	'number'                   => '',
	'taxonomy'                 => 'category',
	'pad_counts'               => false 

); 

?></pre>

== 매개변수 ==

; '''type''' : (''string'') 반환 받을 카테고리의 유형
:* <tt>post</tt> - 기본값
:* <tt>link</tt>
''<span style="color:red;">참고:</span>'' '''<tt>type=link</tt>''' 는 워드프레스 3.0 버전부터 더 이상 사용이 권장되지 않습니다. 대신 '''<tt>taxonomy=link_category</tt>''' 를 사용하세요.

; '''child_of''' : (''integer'') 입력한 ID의 모든 카테고리 후손들을 표시합니다. ex) 자식, 손주. 이 매개변수의 기본값은 없으며, 만약 이 매개변수가 사용되면 ''hide_empty''의 값은 ''false''로 지정됩니다.

; '''parent''' : (''integer'') 입력한 ID의 모든 카테고리 직계후손들을 표시합니다. ex) 자식만. 이 매개변수는 'child_of' 와 동일하게 작동하는 것이 아닙니다. 이 매개변수의 기본값은 없습니다. [In 2.8.4]

; '''orderby''' : (''string'') 알파벳순 또는 고유ID순으로 카테고리를 정렬합니다. 기본값은 ''sort by name'' 입니다. 
유효한 값 :
:* <tt>id</tt>
:* <tt>name</tt> - 기본값
:* <tt>slug</tt>
:* <tt>count</tt>
:* <tt>term_group</tt>

; '''order''' : (''string'') 오름차순 또는 내림차순으로 카테고리를 정렬합니다. 기본값은 ''ascending'' (오름차순) 입니다. 
유효한 값 :
:* <tt>asc</tt> - 기본값
:* <tt>desc</tt>

; '''hide_empty''' : (''boolean'') 포스트가 없는 카테고리의 표시 여부를 토글(Toggle) 합니다. 기본값은 true를 의미하는 ''1'' 이며, 임의로 '0'을 입력하여 false로 만들어 비어있는 카테고리를 표시할 수 있습니다.
유효한 값 :
:* <tt>1</tt> - 기본값
:* <tt>0</tt>

; '''hierarchical''' : (''boolean'') When ''true'', the results will include sub-categories that are empty, as long as those sub-categories have sub-categories that are not empty.  기본값은 ''true'' 입니다. 
유효한 값 :
:* <tt>1 (true)</tt> - 기본값
:* <tt>0 (false)</tt>

; '''exclude''' : (''string'') ''wp_list_categories'' 함수에 의해 생성된 카테고리 목록 중에서 특정 카테고리를 제외시킵니다 (블랙리스트 개념과 같이). 다수일 경우 고유ID를 콤마(,)로 구분하며 오름차순으로 입력합니다. [[Template_Tags/wp_list_categories#Include_or_Exclude_Categories|이 예제]] 를 참고하세요.

; '''include''' : (''string'') ''wp_list_categories'' 함수에 의해 생성된 카테고리 목록 중에서 특정 카테고리만 포함시킵니다 (화이트리스트 개념과 같이). 다수일 경우 고유ID를 콤마(,)로 구분하며 오름차순으로 입력합니다. [[Template_Tags/wp_list_categories#Include_or_Exclude_Categories|이 예제]] 를 참고하세요.
유요한 값 :
:* <tt>list</tt> - 기본값
:* <tt>none</tt>

; '''number''' : (''string'') 반환 받을 카테고리의 개수

; '''taxonomy''' : (''string or array'') 반환 받을 분류(택소노미, Taxonomy).  이 매개변수는 워드프레스 [[Version 3.0]] 에서 추가되었습니다.
유효한 값 :
:* <tt>category</tt> - 기본값
:* <tt>taxonomy</tt> - 또는 등록된 어떠한 택소노미도 가능

; '''pad_counts''' : (''boolean'') 링크 또는 포스트의 개수를 계산할 때 자식 카테고리의 아이템도 포함시킬지 여부를 결정합니다.
유효한 값 :
:* <tt>1 (true)</tt> 
:* <tt>0 (false)</tt> - 기본값

== 반환값 ==
; (array) : 쿼리 매개변수에 부합하는 카테고리 객체의 배열을 반환합니다.

$category 모든 내용 :
<pre>
$category->term_id
$category->name
$category->slug
$category->term_group
$category->term_taxonomy_id
$category->taxonomy
$category->description
$category->parent
$category->count
$category->cat_ID
$category->category_count
$category->category_description
$category->cat_name
$category->category_nicename
$category->category_parent
</pre>
== 예제 ==

=== 포스트 카테고리 페이지에서 부모 카테고리를 드롭다운 박스로 출력하기 ===
이 코드는 워드프레스 3.0.1 내장 카테고리 페이지에서 사용되는 코드입니다.
<pre>
wp_dropdown_categories(array('hide_empty' => 0, 'name' => 'category_parent', 'orderby' => 'name', 'selected' => $category->parent, 'hierarchical' => true, 'show_option_none' => __('None')));</pre>

This slightly altered code will grab all categories and display them with indent for a new level (child category). The select box will have a name= and id= called 'select_name'.
This select will not display a default "none" as the original code was used to attach a category as a child to another category (or none).
<pre>
wp_dropdown_categories(array('hide_empty' => 0, 'name' => 'select_name', 'hierarchical' => true));
</pre>

=== 드롭다운 박스 ===

Here's how to create a dropdown box of the subcategories of, say, a category that archives information on past events. This mirrors the example of the dropdown example of [[Template_Tags/wp_get_archives | wp_get_archives]] which shows how to create a dropdown box for monthly archives.

Suppose the category whose subcategories you want to show is category 10, and that its category "nicename" is "archives".

<pre>
<select name="event-dropdown" onchange='document.location.href=this.options[this.selectedIndex].value;'> 
 <option value=""><?php echo esc_attr(__('Select Event')); ?></option> 
 <?php 
  $categories = get_categories('child_of=10'); 
  foreach ($categories as $category) {
  	$option = '<option value="/category/archives/'.$category->category_nicename.'">';
	$option .= $category->cat_name;
	$option .= ' ('.$category->category_count.')';
	$option .= '</option>';
	echo $option;
  }
 ?>
</select>
</pre>

===List Categories and Descriptions===
This example will list in alphabetic order, all categories presented as links to the corresponding category archive.  Each category descripition is listed after the category link.
<pre>
<?php
$args = array(
  'orderby' => 'name',
  'order' => 'ASC'
  );
$categories = get_categories($args);
  foreach($categories as $category) { 
    echo '<p>Category: <a href="' . get_category_link( $category->term_id ) . '" title="' . sprintf( __( "View all posts in %s" ), $category->name ) . '" ' . '>' . $category->name.'</a> </p> ';
    echo '<p> Description:'. $category->description . '</p>';
    echo '<p> Post Count: '. $category->count . '</p>';  } 
?>
</pre>

===Get only top level categories ===
To get the top level categories only, set parent value to zero. This example gets link and name of top level categories.
<pre>
<?php
$args = array(
  'orderby' => 'name',
  'parent' => 0
  );
$categories = get_categories( $args );
foreach ( $categories as $category ) {
	echo '<a href="' . get_category_link( $category->term_id ) . '">' . $category->name . '</a><br/>';
}
?>
</pre>

== 소스 파일 ==

<tt>get_categories()</tt> 함수는 {{Trac|wp-includes/category.php}} 파일에 위치합니다.

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]
[[Category:함수]]