{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/get_template_part}}
{{tr|Fonksiyon Referans/get_template_part}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/get_template_part}}
{{zh-cn|调用模板部分/get_template_part}}
{{pt-br|get_template_part}}
{{ru|Справочник по функциям/Получение части шаблона}}
}}

== Açıklama ==
Bu fonksiyon ile temanızın içindeki .php ve diğer dosyaları çağırabilirsiniz. Örnek verecek olarak PHP include() fonksiyonu yerine get_template_part fonksiyonunu kullanmanızı tavsiye ederiz.

2 tane parametre almaktadır. 2. Parametre boş olabilir. Eğer 2. parametre var ise iki parametreyide birleştirir:  "{slug}-{name}.php".

== Kullanımı ==

%%% <?php 
$slug = 'dosyalar';
echo get_template_part( $slug ); 
// tema yolu/dosyalar.php
?> %%%

Ayrıca şuşekildede kullanabilirsiniz.
%%% <?php 
$slug = 'dosyalar.txt';
echo get_template_part( $slug ); 
// tema yolu/dosyalar.txt
?> %%%

Alt tarafdaki örnekde ise 2 parametre birleştirerek kullanılmıştır.
%%% <?php 
$slug = 'dosyalar';
$name = 'resimler';
echo get_template_part( $slug, $name ); 
// tema yolu/dosyalar-resimler.php
?> %%%

<code>get_template_part</code> doesn't return a value and doesn't warn if it fails to find a matching template file.

If you want to hear about failures, use:

    <?php assert( "locate_template( array('$name-$slug.php', '$name.php'), true, false )" ); ?>

== Parametreler ==
{{Parameter|$slug|string|Dosya adı.|zorunlu}}
{{Parameter|$name|string|Dosya adı ile birleştirelik son ek.|bos olabilir}}

== Örnekler  ==

=== Using loop.php in child themes ===
Assuming the theme folder is wp-content/themes, that the parent theme is twentyten,  and the child theme is ''twentytenchild'', then the following code --
 <?php get_template_part( 'loop', 'index' ); ?>

will do a [http://www.php.net/manual/en/function.require.php PHP require()] for the first file that exists among these, in this priority:

:#''wp-content/themes/twentytenchild/loop-index.php''
:#''wp-content/themes/twentyten/loop-index.php''
:#''wp-content/themes/twentytenchild/loop.php''
:#''wp-content/themes/twentyten/loop.php''

=== Using with theme subfolders === 

To use this function with subfolders in your theme directory, simply prepend the folder name before the slug. For example, if you have a folder called "partials" in your theme directory and a template part called "content-page.php" in that sub-folder, you would use get_template_part() like this: 
 <?php get_template_part( 'partials/content', 'page' ); ?>

=== Navigation ===
Adding a navigation bar to theme using a generic nav.php template file:

 <?php get_template_part( 'nav' );           // Navigation bar (nav.php) ?>
 <?php get_template_part( 'nav', '2' );      // Navigation bar #2 (nav-2.php) ?>
 <?php get_template_part( 'nav', 'single' ); // Navigation bar to use in single pages (nav-single.php) ?>

== Notes  ==
* Uses: [[Function_Reference/locate_template|locate_template()]]
* Uses: [[Function_Reference/do_action|do_action()]] Calls 'get_template_part_{$slug}' action.

== Change Log ==
* Since: [[Version 3.0|3.0]]

== Source File ==
<tt>get_template_part()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/general-template.php}}.

== External Resources ==

* [http://kovshenin.com/2013/get_template_part/ Understanding get_template_part] by Konstantin Kovshenin

== Related ==
{{Include Tags}}
{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]