<p>[19:44] &lt;photomatt_&gt; Howdy!
<br />[19:44] &lt;SteveAgl&gt; cake and PC.. nt a good combination
<br />[19:44] &lt;photomatt_&gt; sorry about the delay folks
<br />[19:45] &lt;photomatt_&gt; the wireless here is super-funky
<br />[19:45] &lt;photomatt_&gt; the macworld guys must have messed it up&#160;;)
<br />[19:46] &lt;photomatt_&gt; who's here?
<br />[19:46] * Joins: TonySt
<br />[19:46] &lt;PotterSys&gt; that's why i don't live in the world capital of geeks&#160;:P
<br />[19:46] * Joins: mumbles
<br />[19:46] &lt;photomatt_&gt; I'm loading the agenda now
<br />[19:46] &lt;mumbles&gt; i thought of somethign that might be intresting a while ago (for wp) compleatley forgot about it
<br />[19:47] &lt;photomatt_&gt; the two proposed topics are from skippy and ringmaster
<br />[19:47] &lt;SteveAgl&gt; skippy had to go and said:
<br />[19:47] &lt;SteveAgl&gt; &lt;skippy&gt; I'm bailing, too.  My agenda item is just a request to find out if we can lock in a date for a .01 release, and fix the _major_ bugs for that; then release .02 for minor bugs as needed.
<br />[19:47] &lt;PotterSys&gt; ringmaster:&#160;?If someone could please convey my willingness to work with whomever cares on getting planet.wordpress.org working goodly, that would be swell.
<br />[19:47] &lt;PotterSys&gt; *If someone could please convey my willingness to work with whomever cares on getting planet.wordpress.org working goodly, that would be swell.
<br />[19:48] &lt;photomatt_&gt; ah okay
<br />[19:48] &lt;photomatt_&gt; well for the planet WP stuff, that sounds totally groovy
<br />[19:48] &lt;photomatt_&gt; ringmaster is drafted
<br />[19:49] &lt;photomatt_&gt; for the .01 release,my estimate would be early feb
<br />[19:49] &lt;photomatt_&gt; if I was going to put money on it
<br />[19:50] &lt;SteveAgl&gt; 3 weeks... not bad,  see that tickets for .o1 are not so much
<br />[19:53] &lt;photomatt_&gt; it won't fix everything in the world, but what I imagine skippy is getting at
<br />[19:53] &lt;photomatt_&gt; is there are some big issues we've identified and fixed
<br />[19:53] &lt;SteveAgl&gt; in the italian forum the bif probblems were about suexec and upload directory...
<br />[19:54] &lt;SteveAgl&gt; last one it's solved yesterday  i see..
<br />[19:54] &lt;photomatt_&gt; you mean the problem has a patch that fixes it for the people on your forum that were having probs?
<br />[19:54] &lt;SteveAgl&gt; yes
<br />[19:55] &lt;photomatt_&gt; awesome&#160;:)
<br />[19:55] &lt;SteveAgl&gt; there is a big hositng provider e in italy that done'st allow to chamge permission in htdocs dir.. but only on aprivate dire
<br />[19:56] &lt;SteveAgl&gt; so with the new option in the admin menu for upload dir we solve a lot of prolems
<br />[19:56] &lt;SteveAgl&gt; the other one suexec need to be solved
<br />[19:56] &lt;SteveAgl&gt; the solution proposed by Ryan didn't work and iI reopened the tiket
<br />[19:56] &lt;SteveAgl&gt; ticket even
<br />[19:57] &lt;photomatt_&gt; okay
<br />[19:57] &lt;photomatt_&gt; it probably would be worth doing a bug day like we did before
<br />[19:58] &lt;SteveAgl&gt; maybe a weekend bug search&#160;:)
<br />[19:58] &lt;skeltoac&gt; Good times&#160;:)
<br />[19:59] &lt;photomatt_&gt; let's set a preliminary date of the 28th
<br />[20:00] &lt;photomatt_&gt; though we can't do a release around valentine's day like last year, I got in big trouble for that!
<br />[20:00] &lt;SteveAgl&gt; LOL
<br />[20:02] &lt;photomatt_&gt; okay, any other issues people want to bring up?
<br />[20:02] &lt;photomatt_&gt; we can make this a short meetup
<br />[20:02] &lt;photomatt_&gt; I'm hoping to finish up the list from last week and send in to the hackers list
<br />[20:02] &lt;photomatt_&gt; still been a bit swamped with things
<br />[20:02] &lt;PotterSys&gt; photomatt_: you read my mind&#160;:P
<br />[20:03] &lt;SteveAgl&gt; thene for volunteers fo various sections&#160;?
<br />[20:03] &lt;SteveAgl&gt; i was waiting for it too&#160;:)
<br />[20:03] &lt;photomatt_&gt; yes, after it's sent to the hackers list it will be open to volunteers
<br />[20:04] &lt;SteveAgl&gt; goo i woul like to help on the english side if i can.. i di nt to much working onlyy ofr the italian locale.
<br />[20:05] &lt;SteveAgl&gt; oh.. yesterday i discovered that now worpdress.it redirect to NY times&#160;:(I was investingating to get the doamin... but i suppose in can't afford to ny NY Times to hget it&#160;:)
<br />[20:06] &lt;photomatt_&gt; really? we actually have a big problem with international squatters
<br />[20:07] &lt;photomatt_&gt; some are legit projects, like wordpress.de, but many seem to be shady
<br />[20:07] &lt;photomatt_&gt; one guy asked me for thousands of dollars if I wanted the domain back
<br />[20:07] &lt;PotterSys&gt; SteveAgl: did you check in nic.it&#160;?
<br />[20:07] &lt;SteveAgl&gt; last year when i started wordpress-it.it i triede to get wordpress.it but no answer from the owner..
<br />[20:07] &lt;SteveAgl&gt; PotterSys yep
<br />[20:08] &lt;SteveAgl&gt; so now i got some new space.. i registered wordpressitaly.it and planning to move wordpress-it.it
<br />[20:08] &lt;SteveAgl&gt; i doubt i can get wordpress.it anytime&#160;:)
<br />[20:08] &lt;PotterSys&gt; SteveAgl: wait for July&#160;:)
<br />[20:09] &lt;SteveAgl&gt; i'm waiting for&#160;;)
<br />[20:09] &lt;photomatt_&gt; we'll probably end up putting all the "official" international projects on subdomains of wordpress.org, much like wikipedia does
<br />[20:10] &lt;SteveAgl&gt; would be good even just a 3rd level domain it.wordpress.it redirecting on current resource would be good
<br />[20:11] &lt;photomatt_&gt; we'll see how that all works out
<br />[20:11] &lt;PotterSys&gt; would be the best, even with just redirection to original site
<br />[20:11] &lt;photomatt_&gt; okay, well unless there are any further issues let's wrap this up
<br />[20:11] &lt;photomatt_&gt; and I'll work on that wiki doc
<br />[20:11] &lt;SteveAgl&gt; ok
<br />[20:11] &lt;PotterSys&gt; everyone else looks sleeping&#160;:P
<br />[20:11] &lt;SteveAgl&gt; oh photomatt_.. Hppy Bday&#160;:)
<br />[20:12] &lt;PotterSys&gt; photomatt_: i owe you a malteo&#160;:P
<br />[20:12] &lt;SteveAgl&gt; well here is 0.11 i'm sleppy too&#160;:)
<br />[20:12] &lt;photomatt_&gt; thanks!&#160;:)
<br />[20:12] &lt;mumbles&gt; talking about tired
<br />[20:15] &lt;SteveAgl&gt; so meetup's finished&#160;? bed time for EU people&#160;?&#160;:)
<br />[20:17] &lt;photomatt_&gt; &lt;/meetup&gt;
</p><p><a href="https://codex.wordpress.org/IRC_Meetups" title="IRC Meetups">Back to IRC Meetups</a>
</p>
<!-- 
NewPP limit report
Cached time: 20190211004034
Cache expiry: 86400
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.008 seconds
Real time usage: 0.010 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 78/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 164/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 58/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 2/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- 
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%    0.922      1 - Template:meetup
100.00%    0.922      1 - -total
-->
