<div style="border:1px solid blue; background: #CCFFE6; padding:10px; margin:10px; font-size:130%">
These FAQs have been deprecated. You will find the new updated '''Frequently Asked Questions''' on the new pages for the [[FAQ]].
</div>

[[FAQ|Back to FAQ]]
== Formatting an Article's List of Categories ==

To configure the way a post's categories display, open the <tt>index.php</tt> file and find the text <tt><?php the_category(</tt>. Immediately after that bracket, inside quote marks, is the text that goes between each of the categories if you apply multiple categories to a post.

WordPress doesn't add spaces to the separators, so if you want them, add them yourself. For example, if you want categories to be separated with commas, use <tt> <?php the_category(',&nbsp;')</tt> rather than just <tt><?php the_category(',')</tt>. Similarly, if you want categories to be separated with bullets, you might use <tt><?php the_category('&nbsp;&amp;bull;&nbsp;')</tt>.

== If Too Many Comments Go to Your Moderation Queue ==

If almost every comment anyone submits ends up in your moderation queue, there's probably a problem with your '''spam words''' list. Check the list under '''Options''' &rarr; '''Discussion''' carefully to ensure it doesn't have any items consisting of a single character, a blank line, or other whitespace. Sometimes blank lines can be introduced by spam plugins.

== Changing the Admin Name ==

To change the name of the WordPress admin account, log in to WordPress as admin, then choose '''Users'''. Under '''Your Profile''' you can enter your first name, last name, and nickname.

== Finding the Absolute Path of a Page ==

To find the absolute path of a page, copy this text into a new text file:
 <?php
 $p = getcwd();
 echo $p;
 ?>

Save the file as <tt>path.php</tt>. Then open it in a Web browser (for example, <tt>http://www.example.com/images/path.php</tt>).

== Files Affecting Weblog Display ==

These are the main files affecting the display of your site. They can be edited from the WordPress control panel under '''Presentation''' &rarr; '''Theme Editor'''.

; <tt>index.php</tt> : In combination with other PHP files (''see'' Template_Hierarchy), determines the overall HTML structure of each page.

; <tt>style.css</tt> : Controls fonts, colors, margins, backgrounds, and so on.

; <tt>wp-comments.php</tt> : Controls the layout of user-submitted comments and trackbacks, and the comments submission form.

; <tt>wp-comments-popup.php</tt> : Only needed if you show comments in a popup window (this option is off by default).

== Showing Comments in Popup Windows ==

To open a popup window when someone clicks a comments link:

=== In WordPress 1.2 ===

Open <tt>index.php</tt> and find this line:
 <tt><?php //comments_popup_script(); // off by default ?></tt>
Change it to:
 <tt><?php comments_popup_script(); // off by default ?></tt>

=== In WordPress 1.5 Using the "Classic" Theme ===

Open <tt>header.php</tt> and find this line:
 <tt><?php //comments_popup_script(); // off by default ?></tt>
Change it to:
 <tt><?php comments_popup_script(); // off by default ?></tt>

=== In WordPress 1.5 Using the Default Theme ===

Open <tt>header.php</tt> and find this line:
 <tt><?php wp_get_archives('type=monthly&format=link'); ?></tt>
Directly underneath it, ''add'' this line:
 <tt><?php comments_popup_script(); // off by default ?></tt>

== Hiding your Site ==

Whether you're testing a new version of WP, setting up a new blog or have some other reason to limit access, the following information may help you keep unwanted visitors out.

=== Blocking IP addresses using Apache ===

You can use the <tt>.htaccess</tt> file (which also contains your permalink code) to check for certain IP addresses and prevent them from viewing your site. This will only stop the IP address, not the person, so if they can switch to an IP address not in your blacklist, they will still be able to get to your site.
* [http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/howto/access.html  Tutorial on blocking IP addresses using <tt>.htaccess</tt>]

An <tt>.htaccess</tt> file can also be used to prevent people from "hot-linking" to your images (bandwidth theft), or to set up a password-protected site.

=== Basic Authentication ===

To block people from accessing your site unless they enter the correct password:

==== Using Apache ====

* [http://codex.wordpress.org/Glossary#.htaccess .htaccess Definition]
* [http://www.askapache.com/htaccess/apache-htaccess.html Huge list of Apache <tt>.htaccess</tt> examples]
* [http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/howto/access.html  Tutorial on access control using <tt>.htpasswd</tt>]
* [http://www.clockwatchers.com/htaccess_tool.html  Clockwatchers.com .htaccess And .htpasswd tools]

==== Using IIS ===

Deselect "Allow Anonymous Access" and select "Basic Authentication". You'll also need to have a username with a password.

* [http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=kb;en-us;310344  How To Configure IIS 5.0 Web Site Authentication]
* [http://support.microsoft.com/kb/299970/EN-US/ How To Use NTFS Security to Protect a Web Page]
* [http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=kb;en-us;308160  HOW TO: Configure Internet Information Services Web Authentication]

==== Warning ====

With basic authentication, the password is encoded weakly (using base-64), and can be easily intercepted and decoded.

=== Search Engines: Spiders and Bots ===

Search engines will index your site and keep their own temporary copy of it for use in returning search results. If you do not want this to happen, use a file called <tt>robots.txt</tt>.
* [http://www.askapache.com/seo/updated-robotstxt-for-wordpress.html Sample <tt>robots.txt</tt> optimized for SEO]
* [http://www.twentysteps.com/creating-the-ultimate-wordpress-robotstxt-file/ Creating the ultimate <tt>robots.txt</tt>]
* [http://www.askapache.com/seo/wordpress-robotstxt-optimized-for-seo.html SEO Optimized <tt>robots.txt</tt> and robots meta for WordPress]
* [http://www.google.com/support/webmasters/bin/answer.py?answer=40361 Google information about robots.txt]

== Letting People Upload Images ==

To permit image uploads to your site:

# From the admin panel, go to '''Options''' &rarr; '''Miscellaneous'''.
# Select '''Allow File Uploads'''. For help finding the absolute path, see [[Answers-Configuration#Absolute_Path | Absolute Path]]. For help changing permissions, see [[Changing_File_Permissions]].
# In the main menu, you should now see a new '''Upload''' item between '''Options''' and '''Log Out'''.
[[FAQ|Back to FAQ]]
[[Category:Troubleshooting]]