{{Languages|
{{en|Before You Install}}
{{es|Before You Install}}
{{bs|Prije nego otpočnete instalaciju}}
{{de|Vor der Installation}}
{{fi|Ennen kuin asennat}}
{{fr|Avant Installation}}
{{it|Prima di Installare}}
{{ja|インストールの前に}}
{{nl|Voor het installeren}}
{{ta|நிறுவுவதற்கு முன்னர்}}
{{th|ก่อนคุณทำการติดตั้ง}}
{{ru|Перед установкой}}
{{zh-cn|安装之前要了解的}}
{{zh-tw|安裝之前要瞭解的}}
{{pt-br|Antes de Instalar}} 
}}

Before installing WordPress, you need to check that your web hosting provider fulfills the necessary conditions (don't panic! most do) and that you yourself possess the required skills (don't panic! it isn't complicated). Neither of the two should be a problem, but it is wise to verify first.

For a list of requirements on your web host, see [http://wordpress.org/about/requirements/ the official requirement page].

You will need to know how to use a text editor to edit the main configuration file. If you are a Windows user, Notepad will do. Later, you will likely want to edit your Template Files (see [[Templates]] for some references). You can do this through the WordPress [[Administration Panels]], but using a ''good'' text editor is highly recommended. For more information on this, see [[Editing Files]].

You will need to be able to use an FTP program to [[Uploading_WordPress_to_a_remote_host|upload]] files and [[Changing_File_Permissions|set file permissions]] (optional). You could choose [[Using FileZilla|FileZilla]] for this task. 

That's it! Now you are all set to go on to [[Installing_WordPress|Installation]].

[[Category:Installation]]
[[Category:Getting Started]]