{{Languages|
{{en|WP_DEBUG}}
{{it|WP_DEBUG}}
{{bn|WP_DEBUG}}
}}

WP_DEBUG হচ্ছে একটি PHP কনসট্যান্ট (একটি স্থায়ী গ্লোবাল ভেরিয়েবল) যেটা সম্পূর্ণ ওয়ার্ডপ্রেসে "ডিবাগ" মোড ট্রিগার করতে ব্যবহার করা যায়। বাই ডিফল্ট হিসেবে এটা false থাকে, এবং মাঝে মাঝে [[Editing_wp-config.php|wp-config.php]] ফাইলে true করা হয়।

ওয়ার্ডপ্রেস এর মধ্যে বিল্ট ইন আরও ডিবাগিং টূল সম্পর্কে জানতে [[Debugging in WordPress]] দেখুন।

==ব্যবহারবিধি==

 define( 'WP_DEBUG', true );
 define( 'WP_DEBUG', false );

{{লক্ষ্য করুন| উদাহরণে <var>true</var> এবং <var>false</var> ভ্যালু দুইটি উদ্বৃতি চিহ্নের (') মধ্যে রাখা হয়নি। কারন তারা বুলিয়ান ভ্যালু। যদি আপনি WP_DEBUG এর পাশে 'false' লিখেন, তাহলে এটি true হিসেবেই ধরা হবে, কারন এটি তখন বুলিয়ান ভ্যালুর বদলে একটি স্ট্রিং হিসেবে গণ্য হবে।}}

==WP_DEBUG_LOG and WP_DEBUG_DISPLAY==
<tt>WP_DEBUG_LOG</tt> and <tt>WP_DEBUG_DISPLAY</tt> are additional PHP constants that extend <tt>WP_DEBUG</tt>, and may also be used to debug WordPress.
<br/>
=== WP_DEBUG_LOG===

<tt>WP_DEBUG_LOG</tt> is a companion to <tt>WP_DEBUG</tt> that causes all errors to also be saved to a <tt>debug.log</tt> log file inside the <tt>/wp-content/</tt> directory. This is useful if you want to review all notices later or need to view notices generated off-screen (e.g. during an [[AJAX_in_Plugins|AJAX]] request or [[Function_Reference/wp_schedule_event|wp-cron]] run). 

 define( 'WP_DEBUG_LOG', true );

===WP_DEBUG_DISPLAY===

<tt>WP_DEBUG_DISPLAY</tt> is another companion to WP_DEBUG that controls whether debug messages are shown inside the HTML of pages or not. The default is 'true' which shows errors and warnings as they are generated. Setting this to false will hide all errors. This should be used in conjunction with <tt>WP_DEBUG_LOG</tt> so that errors can be reviewed later. 

 define( 'WP_DEBUG_DISPLAY', false );

==History==
The <tt>WP_DEBUG</tt> option was added in WordPress [[Version 2.3.1|Version 2.3.1]].

[http://trac.wordpress.org/ticket/5473 Starting with WordPress version 2.3.2, database errors are printed only if WP_DEBUG is set to <var>true</var>]. In earlier versions, database errors were always printed. (Database errors are handled by the [[Class_Reference/wpdb|wpdb class]] and are not affected by [http://www.php.net/errorfunc PHP's error settings].)

Starting with WordPress version 2.5, setting WP_DEBUG to <var>true</var> also raises the [http://www.php.net/error-reporting error reporting level] to E_ALL and activates warnings when deprecated functions or files are used; otherwise, WordPress sets the error reporting level to <tt>E_ALL ^ E_NOTICE ^ E_USER_NOTICE</tt>.