{{Languages|
{{en|Core Update Host Compatibility}}
{{ja|Core Update Host Compatibility}}
}}

Here is a list of hosts that have been tested with the Core Update feature that becomes available after [[Version 2.7]].  (I.E. For upgrading from 2.7 or later to newer versions.)

Also see compatibility pages:
*[[Plugins/Plugin_Compatibility]]
*[[Themes/Theme_Compatibility]]

Please no links on this page, just the names of the hosts.


== Working hosts, no issues ==

This list is pretty much everyone now, and potentially infinite, so removing and just leaving the other sections.

== Works with caveats ==

=== 0 - 9 ===

*1and1 (fails running PHP 4, but works with PHP 5. Add the line: '''AddType x-mapp-php5   .php''' to the file  .htaccess in your main wordpress directory to enable PHP 5.  This also appears to not only affect Core updates but some Plugin updates as well.)

=== A - D ===
* Aplus.net - Does not work with Akismet due to requirements asking for permission for all outbound http requests to provide port number, IP address or hostname and reason for request.

* Aruba.it (Italy) - Automatic upgrade doesn't work, unless you put in wp-config.php the following variables:
 define('FS_CHMOD_FILE',0755);
 define('FS_CHMOD_DIR',0755);
After you have done this, all settings (should) work perfectly.

'''Note:''' This refers to the Linux version hosting; Windows hosting does not support WordPress correctly and Aruba does not give support for it on this platform.

* Cedant - Does not work with Akismet due to requirements asking for permission for all outbound http requests to provide port number, IP address or hostname and reason for request.

=== E - H ===
<!--  commenting this out for now until resolved * Hosting Matters (Resource and memory issues -- will overload server resulting in Load Lockout with moderate traffic) Slow and unresponsive, will not update plugins or core without freezing. -->

=== I - L ===

=== M - P ===
*one.com (memory issues)

=== Q - T ===
*Servage (works on new clusters with PHP 5 and doesn't work on old clusters with PHP 4)

=== U - Z ===
* World4You (Firewall restriction, works only on a special server)

== Doesn't Work ==

=== 0 - 9 ===

=== A - D ===

=== E - H ===
* hostbot.com (SAFE MODE Restriction in effect)
* Fasthosts (Admin Page pagination broken, reverts to posts on search)
* free.fr (SAFE MODE Restriction in effect)

=== I - L ===
* Lycos Europe - allow access to dashboard but does not display blog. Error message says that the Webpage has a redirect loop, and is caused by a server configuration issue.

=== M - P ===

* Online.net [FR] : not working yet (feb. 09) but may work (with caveats ?) after next internal php upgrade. Stay tuned!
* OVH: not working, always times out before completion.

=== Q - T ===
* Servage (only on old clusters with PHP 4, works on new)

=== U - Z ===

[[Category:Advanced Topics]]
[[Category:WordPress_Development]]