{{Languages|
{{en|CSS}}
{{es|CSS}}
{{ja|CSS}}
{{th|CSS}}
{{zh-cn|CSS}}
{{ru|CSS (Каскадные таблицы стилей)}}
}}
{{ru:Stub}}

WordPress relies heavily on the presentation styles within CSS. With the use of [[Using Themes|Themes]], you have an almost infinite choice of  layout options. WordPress Themes make it easy to change your website look, and open up the field to help you [[Theme Development|create your own Theme]] and page layout.

[[Glossary#CSS|CSS]] stands for '''Cascading Style Sheets'''. It allows you to store style presentation information (like colors and layout) separate from your HTML structure. This allows precision control of your website layout and makes your pages faster and easier to update.

В данной статье кратко описывается использование CSS в WordPress, а также перечислены некоторые ссылки для получения дополнительной информации. Для получения информации о самой CSS см [[Know Your Sources#CSS]].

==WordPress и CSS==

WordPress Themes use a combination of [[Templates|template files]], [[Template Tags|template tags]], and CSS files to generate your WordPress site's look.

;Файлы шаблонов :[[Stepping Into Templates|Template files]] are the building blocks which come together to create your site. In the [[Site Architecture 1.5|WordPress Theme structure]], the header, sidebar, content, and footer are all contained within individual files. They join together to create your page. This allows you to customize the building blocks. For example, in the default WordPress Theme, the multi-post view found on the front page, category, [[Creating_an_Archive_Index|archives]], and [[Creating_a_Search_Page|search]] web pages on your site, the sidebar is present. Click on any post, you will be taken to the single post view and the sidebar will now be gone. You can [[The Loop in Action|choose which parts and pieces appear]] on your page, and customize them individually, allowing for a different header or sidebar to appear on all pages within a specific category. And more. For a more extensive introduction to Templates, see [[Stepping Into Templates]].
;Теги шаблонов :Template tags are the bits of code which provide instructions and requests for information stored within the WordPress database. Some of these are highly configurable, allowing you to customize the date, time, lists, and other elements displayed on your website. You can learn more about template tags in [[Stepping Into Template Tags]].
;Таблица стилей :The CSS file is where it all comes together. On every template file within your site there are HTML elements wrapped around your template tags and content. In the stylesheet within each Theme are rules to control the design and layout of each HTML element. Without these instructions, your page would simply look like a long typed page. With these instructions, you can move the building block structures around, making your header very long and filled with graphics or photographs, or simple and narrow. Your site can "float" in the middle of the viewer's screen with space on the left and right, or stretch across the screen, filling the whole page. Your sidebar can be on the right or left, or even start midway down the page. How you style your page is up to you. But the instructions for styling are found in the <tt>style.css</tt> file within each Theme folder.

==Классы, генерируемые WordPress==

Несколько классов для выравнивания изображений и блочных элементов (<tt>div</tt>, <tt>p</tt>, <tt>table</tt> etc.) были введены в WordPress 2.5: <tt>aligncenter</tt>, <tt>alignleft</tt> и <tt>alignright</tt>. Также не стоит забывать про класс <tt>alignnone</tt>, который добавляется к изображениям, к которым не применялось выравнивание (как правило при оформлении текста в визуальном редакторе (прим.переводчика)), Данный класс позволит оформить подобные картинки особенным способом, если это необходимо.

Одни и те же классы используются для выравнивания изображений, которые имеют заголовок (по состоянию на WordPress 2.6). Три дополнительных класса CSS необходимы для оформления заголовков, а также выравнивание подписей: 

<pre>
/* =Ядро WordPress
-------------------------------------------------------------- */
.alignnone {
    margin: 5px 20px 20px 0;
}

.aligncenter,
div.aligncenter {
    display: block;
    margin: 5px auto 5px auto;
}

.alignright {
    float:right;
    margin: 5px 0 20px 20px;
}

.alignleft {
    float: left;
    margin: 5px 20px 20px 0;
}

.aligncenter {
    display: block;
    margin: 5px auto 5px auto;
}

a img.alignright {
    float: right;
    margin: 5px 0 20px 20px;
}

a img.alignnone {
    margin: 5px 20px 20px 0;
}

a img.alignleft {
    float: left;
    margin: 5px 20px 20px 0;
}

a img.aligncenter {
    display: block;
    margin-left: auto;
    margin-right: auto
}

.wp-caption {
    background: #fff;
    border: 1px solid #f0f0f0;
    max-width: 96%; /* Image does not overflow the content area */
    padding: 5px 3px 10px;
    text-align: center;
}

.wp-caption.alignnone {
    margin: 5px 20px 20px 0;
}

.wp-caption.alignleft {
    margin: 5px 20px 20px 0;
}

.wp-caption.alignright {
    margin: 5px 0 20px 20px;
}

.wp-caption img {
    border: 0 none;
    height: auto;
    margin: 0;
    max-width: 98.5%;
    padding: 0;
    width: auto;
}

.wp-caption p.wp-caption-text {
    font-size: 11px;
    line-height: 17px;
    margin: 0;
    padding: 0 4px 5px;
}

</pre>

Каждая тема должна иметь эти или подобные стили в файле <tt>style.css</tt> чтобы иметь возможность отображать изображения и подписи, оформленные через визуальный редактор, должным образом. Точные HTML элементы и значения классов и ID будет зависеть от структуры темы, которую вы используете.

== Шаблоны и CSS ==

Чтобы помочь вам понять больше о том, как CSS работает при взаимодействии с вашей веб-страницей, вы можете прочитать некоторые из статей, приведенных в этих списках:

* [[Using Themes]] - There are also many advanced articles in this list.
* [[Templates]] - Comprehensive list of WordPress Theme and Template articles.
* [[Theme Development]] - WordPress Theme Development guide and code standards.

== WordPress Layout Help ==

If you are having some problems or questions about your WordPress Theme or layout, begin by checking the website of the Theme author to see if there is an upgrade or whether there are answers to your questions. Here are some other resources:

* [[WordPress Lessons#Designing Your WordPress Site|Lessons on Designing Your WordPress Site]]
* [[Site Design and Layout]] - Comprehensive list of resources related to site design in WordPress.
* [[FAQ Layout and Design]]

== CSS Resources ==

* [[Finding Your CSS Styles]]
* [[CSS Troubleshooting]]
* [[CSS Fixing Browser Bugs]]
* [[CSS Coding Standards]]
* [[CSS Shorthand]]
* [[Know Your Sources#CSS]]
* [[Conditional Comment CSS]]
* [[Validating a Website]]

[[Category:Design and Layout]]
[[Category:WordPress Development]]
[[Category:Russian Codex]]