==Velkommen==
Codex er en [http://da.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wiki wiki], hvilket betyder, at alle kan redigere det. Det gror og trives på grund af individuelle bidragsydere [[Special:Listusers|som dig selv]]. Tak fordi du vælger at bidrage til Codex. Denne side vil vise dig flere måder hvor på du kan bidrage til WordPress dokumentations projektet på Codex.

==First Things First==
Før du kan bidrage:
;Opret en konto: Du kan ikke bidrage uden først at oprette en konto. Dette er for at sikre, at tilfældige personer ikke gøre mere skade end gavn. Vi vil ikke spamme dig, og der er ingen brugeraftale eller noget af den slags.
;Opret en Bruger Side: Når du har oprettet en konto og logget ind, bedes [[Codex:Creating a User Page|opret en Bruger side]] om dig selv. Dette hjælper os med at holde kontakten, og hjælper dig med at definere dig selv.
;Læs retningslinjerne: Venligst gøre dig bekendt med  [[Codex:Guidelines|retningslinjerne]] og [[Codex:Styles|stilarter]] af hjemmesiden.
;Tilmeld dig med WP-docs: Bliv medlem af [[Mailing_Lists#docs|wp-docs mailing listen]]

== Things you can do ==
#[[#Administration and Maintenance|Administration and Maintenance]]
#[[#Creating and Managing Content|Content Management]]
#[[#Discussions and Decisions|Discussions and Decisions]]

===Administration and Maintenance===

A comprehensive guide to helping in Codex maintenance and administration is available at [[Codex:Maintenance]]. Please read the guide and starting helping, now!

===Creating and Managing Content===

You can help the Codex grow by creating and managing content on the Codex, in the following ways:

# Edit existing pages to improve the content, the grammar, spelling, and presentation. Don't know where to start? Visit a [[Special:Randompage|Random page]] (there is a ''Random page'' in the left menu, on all pages), or head over to the [[Codex:Maintenance|maintenance]] page and work on the [[:Category:Stubs|Stub Pages]], or pages requiring [[:Category:Copyedits|Copy Editing]]. [[Help:Contents#Help_For_Editors|Help for Editors]] is available, should you need it.
# Pick a task from the [[Codex:Tasks|Task list]] and start working on it.
# Create new content: So you have a brand new tutorial, or guide that you want to share with everyone? Read the [[Codex:Guidelines#New_Pages|guidelines for creating a new page]], as also the [[Codex:Creating a New Page|Guide for creating new pages]]. Once you are familiar with the two, you can start creating your new articles.

===Discussions and Decisions===

# Join the [[Mailing_Lists#docs|wp-docs mailing list]] and start sharing your opinions and perspective. Often, there will be discussions about the direction Codex has to take, and decisions will be made as to the functioning, structure of the Codex. Share your knowledge, and contribute to the community by taking active part in discussions, and providing feedback when requested.

===Related===
*[[Codex:About|About Codex]]
*[[Codex:Guidelines|Codex Guidelines]]
*[[Codex:Maintenance|Codex Maintenance]]
*[[Codex:Tasks|Task List]]
*[[Codex:Community_Portal|Community Portal]]

{{Stub}}

[[Category:Danish Codex]]