{{Languages|
{{en|Defining Relationships with XFN}}
{{ja|Defining Relationships with XFN}}
}}

== Introduction == 

[http://gmpg.org/xfn/ XFN™] stands for ''XHTML Friends Network''.  XFN™ (XHTML Friends Network) is a simple way to represent human relationships using hyperlinks. WordPress makes it easier to represent the relationships you share with the owners or authors of other websites using XFN™. If you are linking to a website authored by your friend, you can represent this fact using the XFN™ framework, by adding a '''rel="friend"''' attribute to the link. Thus, using XFN™, machines that parse your webpages, as well as other humans, can see how you are related to the pages you link to.

== Benefits ==
# Other programs such as search engines and specialized services will be able to understand and display the relationships you share with other people, which is neat!
# Your weblog's content will be more [http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=the-semantic-web semantic], thus expressing more [http://thefigtrees.net/lee/sw/sciam/semantic-web-in-action meaning].

== Using XFN ==

We recommend that you use XFN™ to better define your relationships and make your weblog more expressive, meaningful and machine-comprehensible.

When you add a new link in the [[Links Manager]], you may specify the relationship you share in real life with the author of the page to which you're linking to.  This will automatically add a '''rel="X"''' attirbute to the HTML code for the link (where '''X''' is the relationship you specify). The following XFN™ definitions are part of the vocabulary of XFN™. You can use any of the following definitions to specify relationships.

=== XFN Definitions ===

<small>Descriptions of the XFN relationships were modified from those found at the XFN [http://gmpg.org/xfn/join Getting Started] page.</small>

;identity:  Use this checkbox if the link is to another of your own websites.  This relationship is exclusive of all others.
;friendship:  These radio buttons allow you to specify one of four different types of friendships:
:*'''acquaintance''' - Someone with whom you have exchanged greetings and not much (if any) more -- maybe a short conversation or two.
:*'''contact''' - Someone with whom you know how to get in touch.
:*'''friend''' - Someone you consider a friend. A compatriot, buddy, home(boy|girl) that you know.
:*'''none''' - Use this if you want to leave the friendship category blank.
;physical: Check the '''met''' checkbox if this is someone whom you have actually met in person.
;professional: These two checkboxes allow you to specify your professional relationship with the author of the link's site.
:*'''co-worker''' - Someone with whom you work or someone who works at the same organization as you.
:*'''colleague''' - Someone in the same field of study or activity.
;geographical: Use these three radio buttons to specify how you relate geographically to the author of the link's site.
:*'''co-resident''' - Someone with whom you share a street address.  A roommate.  A Flatmate.  A member of your family living in the same home.
:*'''neighbor''' - Someone who lives nearby, perhaps only at an adjacent street address or doorway.
:*'''none''' - Use this if you want to leave the geographical category blank.
;family: Six radio buttons to specify your familial relationship.
:*'''child''' - Your genetic offspring.  Or someone that you have adopted and take care of.
:*'''kin''' - A relative.  Someone you consider part of your extended family.
:*'''parent''' - Your progenitor.  Or someone who has adopted and takes care (or took care) of you.
:*'''sibling''' - Someone with whom you share a parent.
:*'''spouse''' - Someone to whom you are married.
:*'''none''' - Use this if you want to leave the family category blank.
;romantic:  Use these four checkboxes to define how you are "romantically" related to the author of the site.
:*'''muse''' - Someone who brings you inspiration.
:*'''crush''' - Someone on whom you have a crush.
:*'''date''' - Someone you are dating.
:*'''sweetheart''' - Someone with whom you are intimate and at least somewhat committed, possibly exclusively.

'''Note''':XFN relationships are optional for WordPress links.  You can leave all the XFN options blank in the [[Links Manager]], and the link will still work just fine.

==An XFN Example==

Suppose a friend of yours whom you have met in real life owns the site <nowiki>http://www.example.com/</nowiki>.  When you add that site to your list of links, you can specify that the owner of that site is a friend, and that you have met in real life.  The link that is created will be of the form:
 <nowiki><a href="http://www.example.com/" rel="friend met">Example</a></nowiki>
This link works just the same as a normal link, but contains extra information about your relationship to the site.

==Further XFN Reading==

For more information about XFN relationships and examples concerning their use, see the [http://gmpg.org/xfn/ Official XHTML Friends Network Website].



[[Category:WordPress Development]]