{{Languages|
{{en|Developing a Colour Scheme}}
{{ko|Developing a Colour Scheme}}
}}
When it comes to colour, there is a lot to think about as you develop or design your WordPress [[Using Themes|Theme]].  It's like painting a house.  Which colour will cover the entire exterior? What colour do you want the door?  Or the window trim? Accents and complementary colours or contrasting colours?

The colours that go into a website are not limited to the colour of the background and text. You have to consider all the colours used together. For example the links on your site can have three colour choices:

*unvisited
*hover
*visited

It's important to make sure everything is in harmony. Your header or masthead may be filled with colour while the rest of the site may be less colourful.  Titles, headings, and lists, all can be in colour. And don't forget about the bullets on your lists - they are often coloured, too.  With so many colour choices, finding a colour scheme or theme can be a challenge.

To help you pick your website colours, here is a list of colour tools and resources to get you started. 

==Colour Schemes==
* [https://color.adobe.com/ Adobe Color CC] formerly known as Kuler - create color schemes with the color wheel or browse thousands of color combinations from the Kuler community.
* [http://paletton.com Paletton - The Color Scheme Designer] Formerly known as Color Scheme Designer
* [http://www.colormatch.dk/ Color Match - gets six matching web colors (MSIE only)]
* [http://www.colourlovers.com/ Colour Lovers - Browse others' color palettes, latest web trend color schemes, download palettes for your application]
* [http://colllor.com/ Web color palette the right way. Create consistent color schemes. Generate color shades, tones and tints values.]
*[https://coolors.co/ Coolors.co] Generate perfect color combinations for your designs.
*[https://htmlcolors.com/palettes Html Color Palettes]
*[https://trendypalettes.com Trendy Palettes]

==Colour Charts==
* [https://htmlcolors.com/color-chart Color Chart by HTML Colors]
* [http://html-color-codes.com/ Color Charts by HTML Color Codes]
* [http://www.visibone.com/color/ Bob Stein's Visibone Colour Charts]
* [http://html-color-codes.info/#Basic_Html_Color_Chart Dynamic Color Chart Of HTML Color Codes]

==Colour Pickers==
* [https://htmlcolors.com/color-picker Html Color Picker]
* [http://telcontar.net/MacApps/ColourSelector/ Free Application for Mac and Windows users for color picking and changing colors]
* [https://addons.update.mozilla.org/extensions/moreinfo.php?application=firefox&id=271&vid=1032 Colorzilla for Mozilla Firefox - Color Picker]
* [https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/flnkogfheemakepeokbheholhfhgcbae Colorhexa for Google Chrome]
* [http://colorcop.net/ Color Cop, multi-purpose color picker for web designers and programmers]
* [http://www.iconico.com/colorpic/index.aspx Iconico ColorPic - Great, simple and free]
* [http://html-color-codes.info/#Advanced_Html_Color_Codes Online  HTML Color Codes Picker]

==Colour Blenders==
* [https://htmlcolors.com/color-mixer Html Color Mixer]
* [http://www.colorhexa.com/color-blend Color Mixer]
* [http://colormixers.com/ Color Mixers]
* [http://meyerweb.com/eric/tools/color-blend/ Eric Meyer's Color Blender]

==Colour Gradient Generators==
* [http://www.colorzilla.com/gradient-editor/ ColorZilla Gradient Generator]
* [http://www.colorhexa.com/color-gradient ColorHexa Gradient Generator]
* [http://www.css3factory.com/linear-gradients/ CSS3Factory Gradient Generator]
* [http://www.cssmatic.com/gradient-generator CSSMatic Gradient Generator]
* [https://gradienthunt.com/ Gradient Hunt]
* [https://htmlcolors.com/gradients Html Gradients]

==Colour Tools==
* [https://htmlcolors.com/ HTML Colors]
* [http://www.colorhexa.com/ Color Hex Information and Conversion]
* [http://redalt.com/ilyc Redalt's Color Tools - Enter a URL and reports colors used]
* [http://www.themaninblue.com/experiment/Technicolor/ Manually Add Colors to Change the Layout]
* [http://html-color-codes.info/ Online HTML Color Codes Color Picker and Dynamic Color Chart]
* [http://Nice-Soft.blogspot.com/ SiTCE - Photoshop Script to Change Hue, Saturation And Lightness of WordPress Theme]
* [http://rgbhexcode.com RGBHexCode ColourPicker - Generate RGB/Hex values and create shades, tint, complementary colours, etc.]

==Related==

{{Lessons}}

[[Category:WordPress Lessons]]
[[Category:Design and Layout]]