This team consists of people who contribute to WordPress development by [[Reporting Bugs#Patching_Bugs|patching]] or testing bugs. This is an open team—''anyone'' can join!

To join the Development Team, add your name to the Contributors list. If you specialize in a certain area of development, be sure to note that next to your name. Displaying your full name is preferred—however, if you are concerned about privacy you may simply provide your username.

If you have been placed on this list and your name is not linked, please provide a link to your Codex user page. If you do not have a Codex account, you may link to your website. If you have been placed on this list and you would not like to be, you may remove your name.

== The Team ==
=== Lead Developers ===
* [http://boren.nu Boren, Ryan]
* [http://markjaquith.com Jaquith, Mark]
* [[User:Matt|Mullenweg, Matt]]
* [http://www.laptoptips.ca/ Ozz, Andrew]
* [[User:Westi|Westwood, Peter]]
* [[User:nacin|Nacin, Andrew]]

=== Contributors ===
* [http://blogwaffe.com/ Adams, Michael]
* [http://robinadr.com/ Adrianse, Robin]
* [http://debian.fmi.uni-sofia.bg/~nb/en/ Bachiyski, Nikolay]
* [http://lkd.to/danielchatfield Chatfield, Daniel]
* [http://somethingunpredictable.com/ Deaton, Robert]
* [[User:HEngel|Engel, Hans]]
* [https://imember360.com/ Keen, Bob]
* [https://wordpress.org/support/profile/vasanthwp Vasanth kumar]
* [http://ocaoimh.ie/ O Caoimh, Donncha]
* [http://www.skeltoac.com/ Skelton, Andy]
* [http://www.askapache.com/ AskApache]
* [http://www.doityourselfcomputing.com/ Drake, Robbi]
* [[User:Michael.w.scott.jr|Scott Jr, Michael W]]
* [https://profiles.wordpress.org/abinav Thakuri, Abinav]



[[Category:Advanced Topics]]
[[Category:WordPress Development]]