{{Languages|
{{en|Documentation_team}}
{{ko|Documentation_team}}
}}
== Important Note ==

Most of the text below are not relevant anymore. It is now kept here as historical record. For updated information on what the Documentation team is doing, check out the make docs site. https://make.wordpress.org/docs/

== Archive begins here ==

Your friendly [[Special:Listadmins|administrators]] and moderators work hard to keep [[WordPress]] documentation in tip-top shape. And unlike many teams, this is one ''anyone'' can join!

If you add yourself to the list, be sure to subscribe to the [[Mailing Lists#Documentation|documentation mailing list]] as well. Please refer to [[Codex:Contributing|Contributing to Codex]] to see how you can get started with helping this documentation process.

If you coordinate (or would like to) a specific area of the Codex or have a particular expertise related to WordPress and the Codex, please list that, too.

== The Team ==

The following list serves to identify people involved with the Codex, and their interests, or areas of speciality, so to speak. If you have questions about contributing to a particular section, please feel free to contact one of the Admins, or Contributors currently interested in that section. If you have difficulty locating someone for your section, list yourself, and contact an Admin if you have any questions.

=== Admins ===
Contact any of these folks if you are facing technical problems with the Codex, Admins should 
be authorative, e.g. if you need a definite answers to something:

* [[User:Matt|Matt]] Codex Development, developer topics
* [[User:Janeforshort|Jenifer Wells]] / [http://jane.wordpress.com/ Jenifer Wells (Jane)] Authorative Member of the Docs Team

=== Maintainers ===
Contact any of these folks if you are facing technical problems with the Codex. Not all might be able to help with administrative questions:

* [[User:Carthik|Carthik]] Codex Maintenance, Helping newcomers, Glossary, User Guide 
* [[User:NuclearMoose|NuclearMoose]] 
* [[User:Podz|Podz]] 
* [[User:MDAWaffe|MDAWaffe]]
* [[User:Kafkaesqui|Kafkaesqui]] Template Tags, General
* [[User:Lorelle|Lorelle]] - WordPress Lessons, General Housekeeping
* [[User:Skippy|skippy]]
* [[User:Westi|Westi]]
* [[User:MichaelH|MichaelH]]
* [[User:Mrmist|Mrmist]] [[User_talk:Mrmist|(talk)]] - Codex Janitor

=== Contributors ===

* [[User:AaronLaw|Aaron Law]]
* [[User:Abdessamad_idrissi|Abdessamad Idrissi]] - General Housekeeping
* [[User:Abdullahsblog|Abdullah]] - Arabic translation
* [[User:Alakhnor|Alakhnor]] - French translation
* [[User:Alex-ye|Nashwan Doaqan]] - Arabic translation
* [[User:Karkandehdotir|Muhammad Abdi]] - Persian translation
* [[User:Ancawonka|Ancawonka]] - Adding helpful sample code and transcribing answers from wp-hackers when appropriate.
* [[User:Angeloverona|Angelo Verona]] - Slovak translation
* [[User:ApiDevlab|ApiDevlab]]
* [[User:Arlen22|Arlen22]] - A wikipedian who has done a lot of organizing on the wikimedia sites and has Mediawiki running on his own server. He also likes making little tweaks to make wikis look nicer, and has invented a new file extension (''.wmu'').
* [[ User:arush|Amanda Rush]] - has adopted the [[http://codex.wordpress.org/Installing_WordPress| Installing WordPress]] page and is part of the Working Group on Accessibility at [[http://make.wordpress.org/accessibility| Make WordPress Accessible.]]
* [[User:AskApache|AskApache]] - Apache/Unix/Server security and feature testing
* [[User:Boneill|Ben O'Neill]]
* [[User:CoachBirgit|Birgit Olzem]] - de_DE Release Manager, Validator, proof-reading, tutoring and organizing german translation team
* [[User:Bishoy.A|Bishoy.A]] - Documentation, Arabic Codex translation, Proud WordPress Developer
* [[User:Bravokeyl|Bravokeyl]] - No Specific Area.
* [[User:MerpDerp|MerpDerp]] - No Specific Area.
* [[User:Kuzmanov|Boris Kuzmanov]] - Macedonian translation
* [[User:GoceMitevski|Goce Mitevski]] - Macedonian translation
* [[User:Carreg|Carreg]] - WPMU
* [[User:CharlesClarkson|Charles K. Clarkson]] - Editing Functions Reference pages. (Currently compiling list of global variables used in WordPress.)
* [[User:Chradil|Christopher J. Hradil]] [[User_talk:Chradil|(talk)]]- Obsessive compulsive problem solver, advanced expertise in coding, css, apache, Unix, integration, xoops, etc. advanced wp user.
* [[User:Chsxf|Christophe SAUVEUR]] - French translation
* [[User:Jcnetsys|Daniel Chatfield]] - Core file contributor
* [[User:DavidHouse|DavidHouse]] - I'm writing some developer's resources at the moment, see my user page.
* [[User:Derwin|Derwin]] - French translation
* [[User:Dianakc|Dianakc]] [[User_talk:Dianakc|(talk)]] - Portuguese-Brazil translation and maintenance. Obsessive compulsive in tutoring and organizing everything. Pergunte se tiver dúvidas sobre wiki.
* [[User:Diego_WP|Diego Alonso González]] - Spanish translation.
* [[User:Diogohb|Diogo Henriques]] - Portuguese-Brazil translation.
* [[User:Dirk|Dirk]]
* [[User:Scriptrunner|Doug Sparling]] - Developer documentation, copy editing, general documentation clean up. Code wrangler and grammar nerd.
* [[User:Eduardozulian|Eduardo Zulian]] - Brazilian portuguese translation
* [[User:EduardoE|EduardoE]] (spanish translation)
* [[User:Ekajogja|Eka]] - Indonesian Translation
* [[User:EvMcD|Evelyn McDonald]] - documentation, editing, proofreading
* [[User:Freediver|Freediver]] - Core documentation
* [[User:Gelihui|Gelihui]] - Chinese translation
* [[User:CreativeJuiz|Geoffrey Crofte]] - French translation, typos and examples corrector.
* [[User:GregLone|Gregory Viguier]] - French bug detector, core contributor.
* [[User:HEngel|HEngel]] - mainly documenting the [[Function Reference]], helping out on [[Codex:Tasks#Mizzed_Spellings|Mizzed Spellings]], and making redirects for capitalization so people don't get lost
* '''&there4;''' [[user:Here|here]]&hellip;[[user_talk:Here|&spades;]] -- experienced with [http://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/User:Here other mediawiki projects], intermediate wordpress user.
* [[User:huston|huston]] - ''editing, instructional design''
* [[User:Ipsoltl|ipsoltl]] - Russian Translation Codex
* [[User:Jnhghy|Jnhghy]] - Core documentation, your forum helper, advanced WordPress user
* [[User:Jean-LucS|Jean-Luc SansCartier]] - French translation
* [[User:Adiant|jonradio]] - Functions
* [[User:Jpaul|Jean-Paul Olivier]] - French translation
* [[User:Jdesrosiers|Julien Desrosiers]] - Going through one function reference (english version) every day. Correcting typos and examples if needed.
* [[User:juliobox|Julio Potier]] - Codex maintenance (french and english), correcting examples and typos. Core contributor. Ticket/trac reader and patch contributor. French translation fixer. 
* [[User:Kazama|kazama]] - Thai translation, Lao translation
* [[User:Keesiemeijer|Keesiemeijer]]
* [[User:Ladygeek|Ladygeek]]-typos,proofreading,Wordpress tutoring,general editing
* [[User:ladymacbeth9|ladymacbeth9]]-- minor code edits, editor, spelling errors, wordpress design and general tidying up.
* [[User:Lastnode|Lastnode]] [[User_talk:Lastnode|(talk)]] - Copyediting
* [[User:Liuming|Liuming]] Chinese translation
* [[User:Lorelle|Lorelle]] - WordPress Lessons, General Housekeeping
* [[User:Loweek|Loweek]] - French translation
* [[User:LukeAmerica2020|Luke America]] - Code Development and Documentation
* [[User:M7CSAT|M7CSAT]] - Copyediting
* [[User:MacManX|MacManX]]
* [[User:Royalpokno|RoyalPokno]] - Khmer Translation
* [[User:Mathieuhays|Mathieu Hays]] - french translation
* [[User:Matthew Thomas|Matthew Thomas]]
* [[User:X12x63|Mehmet Tahta]] - Turkish Translation
* [[User:Motta|Motta]] - Chinese translation
* [[User:miahz|miahz]]
* [[User:MichaelH|MichaelH]] [[User_talk:MichaelH|(talk)]]- edits, Glossary, General, Welcome
* [[User:Morganestes|Morgan Estes]] - code reference migration and copyediting
* [[User:morganiq|morganiq]]
* [[User:Moshu|Moshu]]
* [[User:MisterCat|Nicola Solimano]] - Italian translation
* [[User:Nawrocki|Nawrocki]] [[User_talk:Nawrocki|(talk)]] - Copyediting
* [[User:Nik|Nik Cubrilovic]] 
* [[USer:Shaun|Palmer]]-Theme Development and Frontend Web Development
* [[User:Marfarma|Pauli Price]] - Improve developer documentation of API related to plugin & theme implementation.
* [[User:mordauk|Pippin Williamson]] - Function reference
* [[User:PotterSys|PotterSys]] - ''Translating to Spanish, write in English, [[IRC_Meetups|Meetup]] logger''
* [[User:Priceofsalt|Priceofsalt]]
* [[User:ringmaster|ringmaster]]
* [[User:Ramiy|Ramiy]] - Documentation on [[Template Tags]], [[Function Reference]], [[Multilingual Codex]] and the [[he:עמוד ראשי|Hebrew Codex]].
* [[User:RandyWalker|Randy Walker]] - General
* [[User:Corsonr|Rémi Corson]] - French Documentation
* [[User:Resiny|Resiny]]
* [[User:Rod Whiteley|Rod Whiteley]] - Network, Glossary
* [[User:Ryan Duff|Ryan Duff]]
* [[User:serendipity|serendipity]]
* [[User:Serge_K._Keller|Serge K. Keller]]
* [[User:SergeyBiryukov|SergeyBiryukov]] - Russian Translation
* [[User:Skippy|skippy]] - Advanced Topics, Developer Documentation
* [[User:Sunnyratilal|Sunny Ratilal]] - Function reference
* [[User:Ws5f3dj7|Spencer HIll]] - Codex Organization, Non-Developer Training & Documentation
* [[User:Stedi|Stedi]]
* [[User:Thiedest|thiedest]] - French translation
* [[User:Themedaily|Themedaily]] - Chinese translation
* [[User:tailslee|tailslee]] - Chinese translation
* [[User:Vinod_dalvi|Vinod Dalvi]]
* [[User:Westi|Westi]] [[User_talk:Westi|(talk)]] - Spam Reverting, Change Reviewing, Importing things marked [http://wordpress.org/tags/addtocodex addtocodex] on the forums
* [[User:Wlady97200|Wlady97200]] - French translation
* [[User:Yami McMoots|Yami McMoots]] - Intermediate Topics and Lessons by day, Anal Retentive Usage Maven by night.
* [[User:YannC|YannC]] - Pages /French-Français : "Traduction du Codex : Méthode de travail"
* [[User:Yan Ong Min|Yan Ong Min]] - Myanmar translation
* [[User:Zhouzb889|Zhouzb889]] - Chinese translation
* [[User:Tw2113|Michael Beckwith]] - Theme Development and Frontend Web Development
* [[User:Tinym|Michelle]] - Copyediting, general documentation clean up, theme development
*[[User:Bagerathan|Bage]] - Codex tamil translation and Wordpress Tamil(sl) translation.
* [[User:Baialaps|Mark Chen]] - Chinese translation
* [[User:Moraleida.me|Ricardo Moraleida]] - Brazilian Portuguese translation and General Documentation
* [[User:Canfas|Canfas]] - Korean Translation
* [[User:Krzheiyah|Ephramar]] - Tagalog Translation
* [[User:Telilbo|Alan Choi]] - Korean Translation, Web Developer
* [[User:Treezi1004|Chanil Park]] - Korean Translation, Documentation for Korean and English.
* [[User:Toghou_j|Toghou_j]] - Documentation, Code Development, Web Developer
* [[User:Wp-buddy|wp-buddy]] - German plugin developer who contributes to the codex from time to time.
* [[User:Kosinix|kosinix]] - Contributes to the docs from time to time.
* [[User:Yulianas|Yulianas]] - Documentation, Web Developer

<div style="text-align:right;">[http://codex.wordpress.org/index.php?title=Documentation_team&action=edit Add yourself, describing your interests and activities on the Codex &raquo;]</div>

[[Category:About Codex]]