{{Languages|
{{en|Embeds}}
{{fr|Contenus Intégrés}}
{{hr|Ugradnje}}
{{it|Embed}}
{{ja|Embeds}}
{{nl|Insluiten}}
{{pt-br|Incorporados}}
{{ru|Вставка объектов}}
{{zh-cn|嵌入}}
{{ko|임베드}}
}}

__TOC__
It's super easy to '''embed''' videos, images, tweets, audio, and other content into your WordPress site. This feature was added in WordPress 2.9 [https://wordpress.org/news/2009/12/wordpress-2-9/]

== Usage ==

To embed a video or another object into a post or [[Pages|page]], place its URL into the content area. Make sure the URL is on its own line and not hyperlinked (clickable when viewing the post).

For example:

 Check out this cool video:
 
 <nowiki>http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ</nowiki>
 
 That was a cool video.

WordPress will automatically turn the URL into a YouTube embed and provide a live preview in the visual editor.

Another option is to wrap the URL in the [[Embed Shortcode|<tt>[embed]</tt>]] [[Shortcode]].

 <nowiki>[embed width="123" height="456"]http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ[/embed]</nowiki>

If WordPress fails to embed the URL, the post will contain a hyperlink to the URL.

== oEmbed ==

The easy embedding feature is mostly powered by oEmbed, a protocol for site A (such as your blog) to ask site B (such as YouTube) for the HTML needed to embed content from site B.

oEmbed was designed to avoid the need to copy and paste HTML from the site hosting the media you wish to embed.  It supports videos, images, text, and more.

== Does This Work With Any URL? ==

No, not by default. WordPress will only embed URLs matching an internal whitelist. This is for security purposes.

== Okay, So What Sites Can I Embed From? ==

You can use all of these:

{| class="widefat"
|- style="background:#464646; color:#d7d7d7;"
! '''Service'''
! '''Embed Type'''
! '''Since'''
|-
| [http://amazon.com Amazon Kindle instant previews]
| Videos
| [[Version 4.9|WordPress 4.9]]
|-
| [http://animoto.com Animoto]
| Videos
| [[Version 4.0|WordPress 4.0]]
|-
| [http://blip.tv/ Blip]
| Videos
| [[Version 2.9|WordPress 2.9]]
|-
| [http://cloudup.com Cloudup]
| Videos, Galleries, Images
| [[Version 4.4|WordPress 4.4]]
|-
| [http://collegehumor.com CollegeHumor]
| Videos
| [[Version 4.0|WordPress 4.0]]
|-
| [http://www.dailymotion.com/ DailyMotion]
| Videos
| [[Version 2.9|WordPress 2.9]]
|-
| [https://www.facebook.com/ Facebook]
| post, activity, photo, video, media, question, note
| [[Version 4.7|WordPress 4.7]]
|-
| [http://www.flickr.com/ Flickr]
| Videos & Images
| [[Version 2.9|WordPress 2.9]]
|-
| [http://www.funnyordie.com/ FunnyOrDie.com]
| Videos
| [[Version 3.0|WordPress 3.0]]
|-
| [http://www.hulu.com/ Hulu]
| Videos
| [[Version 2.9|WordPress 2.9]]
|-
| [http://imgur.com Imgur]
| Images
| [[Version 3.9|WordPress 3.9]]
|-
| [http://instagram.com Instagram]
| Images
| [[Version 3.5|WordPress 3.5]]
|-
| [http://issuu.com Issuu]
| Documents
| [[Version 4.0|WordPress 4.0]]
|-
| [http://www.kickstarter.com/ Kickstarter]
| Projects
| [[Version 4.2|WordPress 4.2]]
|- 
| [http://meetup.com Meetup.com]
| Various
| [[Version 3.9|WordPress 3.9]]
|- 
| [http://mixcloud.com Mixcloud]
| Music
| [[Version 4.0|WordPress 4.0]]
|-
| [http://photobucket.com/ Photobucket]
| Images
| [[Version 2.9|WordPress 2.9]]
|-
| [http://www.polldaddy.com/ PollDaddy]
| Polls & Surveys
| [[Version 3.0|WordPress 3.0]]
|-
| [http://reddit.com/ Reddit]
| Posts & Comments
| [[Version 4.4|WordPress 4.4]]
|-
| [http://reverbnation.com/ ReverbNation]
| Music
| [[Version 4.4|WordPress 4.4]]
|-
| [http://www.scribd.com/ Scribd]
| Documents
| [[Version 2.9|WordPress 2.9]]
|-
| [http://www.slideshare.net SlideShare]
| Presentation slideshows
| [[Version 3.5|WordPress 3.5]]
|-
| [http://www.smugmug.com/ SmugMug]
| Various
| [[Version 3.0|WordPress 3.0]]
|-
| [http://soundcloud.com/ SoundCloud]
| Music
| [[Version 3.5|WordPress 3.5]]
|-
| [http://speakerdeck.com/ Speaker Deck]
| Presentation slideshows
| [[Version 4.4|WordPress 4.4]]
|-
| [http://www.spotify.com/ Spotify]
| Music
| [[Version 3.6|WordPress 3.6]]
|-
| [http://www.ted.com/ TED]
| Videos
| [[Version 4.0|WordPress 4.0]]
|-
| [http://www.tumblr.com/ Tumblr]
| Various
| [[Version 4.2|WordPress 4.2]]
|-
| [https://twitter.com Twitter]
| Tweet, profile, list, collection, likes, Moment
| [[Version 3.4|WordPress 3.4]]
|-
| [http://videopress.com/ VideoPress]
| Videos
| [[Version 4.4|WordPress 4.4]]
|-
| [http://vimeo.com/ Vimeo]
| Videos
| [[Version 2.9|WordPress 2.9]]
|-
| [https://vine.co/ Vine]
| Videos
| [[Version 4.1|WordPress 4.1]]
|-
| [http://wordpress.org/plugins-wp/ WordPress plugin directory]
| Plugins
| [[Version 4.4|WordPress 4.4]]
|-
| [http://wordpress.tv/ WordPress.tv]
| Videos
| [[Version 2.9|WordPress 2.9]]
|-
| [http://www.youtube.com/ YouTube]
| Videos
| [[Version 2.9|WordPress 2.9]]
|}

'''Notes'''
* Twitter - older versions of WordPress have issues with https embeds, just remove the s from the https to fix.
* YouTube - only public and "unlisted" videos and playlists - "private" videos will not embed.
* Tumblr - only posts (name.tumblr.com/post/etc) are recognized, not standalone images (name.tumblr.com/image)

== How Can I Add or Change Support For Websites? ==

Adding support for an additional website depends on whether the site supports oEmbed.

=== Adding Support For An oEmbed-Enabled Site ===

If a site supports oEmbed, you'll want to call [[Function Reference/wp_oembed_add_provider|<tt>wp_oembed_add_provider()</tt>]] to add the site and URL format to the internal whitelist.

=== Adding Support For A Non-oEmbed Site ===

You'll need to register a handler using [[Function Reference/wp_embed_register_handler|<tt>wp_embed_register_handler()</tt>]] and provide a callback function that generates the HTML.

=== Removing Support for An oEmbed-Enabled Site ===

If you wish to remove an oEmbed-enabled provider, you'll want to call [[Function Reference/wp_oembed_remove_provider|<tt>wp_oembed_remove_provider</tt>]].

=== Whitelisting an oEmbed Provider in Core ===

We have a certain standard for oEmbed providers in core. In order to add a new one to the existing whitelist, they must meet [https://make.wordpress.org/core/handbook/contribute/design-decisions/#whitelisting-oembed-providers certain criteria].

== What About oEmbed Discovery? ==

As of version 4.4, WordPress supports oEmbed discovery, but has severe limitations on what type of content can be embedded via non-whitelisted sites.

Specifically, the HTML and Video content is filtered to only allow links, blockquotes, and iframes, and these are additionally filtered to prevent insertion of malicious content. The HTML is then modified to be sandboxed and to have additional security restrictions placed on them as well.

However, if you feel you are knowledgeable enough to not require this level of safety, you can give <code>unfiltered_html</code> users (Administrators and Editors) the ability to embed from websites that have oEmbed discovery tags in their <code>&lt;head&gt;</code>. You merely need to install [http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/enable-oembed-discovery/ Enable oEmbed Discovery plugin]. This is generally not recommended.

The oEmbed discovery content for "link" and "photo" types is not quite so heavily filtered in this manner, however it is properly escaped for security and to prevent any malicious content from being displayed on the site.

== External Resources ==

* [http://oembed.com/ oEmbed.com] - Official oEmbed website with technical details of the spec
* [http://www.webmonkey.com/2010/02/get_started_with_oembed/ Get Started With OEmbed] - by Webmonkey.com
* [http://generatewp.com/oembed/ WordPress oEmbed Providers Registration Generator] - by GenerateWP.com
* [http://www.viper007bond.com/2009/10/13/easy-embeds-for-wordpress-2-point-9/ Easy Embeds For WordPress 2.9] - by Alex Mills (Viper007Bond)
* [http://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-themes/how-to-set-oembed-max-width-in-wordpress-3-5-with-content_width/ How to Set oEmbed Max Width in WordPress 3.5 with $content_width?] - by wpbeginner.com

== Changelog ==
* [[Version 2.9|2.9]] :
** Introduction of the builtin Embeds support.
* [[Version 3.0|3.0]] :
** Added: SmugMug, FunnyOrDie
* [[Version 3.4|3.4]] :
** Added: Twitter single Tweet
* [[Version 3.5|3.5]] :
** Embed options were removed from the [[Settings Media Screen]].
** Added: Instagram, SoundCloud, SlideShare
* [[Version 3.6|3.6]] :
** Added: Rdio, Spotify
* [[Version 3.9|3.9]] :
** Removed: Qik (the service shutting down in April 2014)
* [[Version 4.0|4.0]] :
** Major reworking of the preview code showing embeds within the editor [[wp.mce.views]].
** Added: CollegeHumor, Issuu, Mixcloud, YouTube playlists, TED talks
** Removed: Viddler (removed due to the service shutting down their oEmbed endpoint)
* [[Version 4.1|4.1]] :
** Added: Vine
* [[Version 4.2|4.2]] :
** Added: Kickstarter, Tumblr
** Removed: Revision3
* [[Version 4.4|4.4]] :
** Added: ReverbNation, Cloudup, Reddit, SpeakerDeck, VideoPress
** Removed: Blip
* [[Version 4.4.1|4.4.1]] :
** Removed: Rdio (Service shut down)
* [[Version 4.5|4.5]] :
** Added: Twitter Moment, collection
* [[Version 4.7|4.7]] :
** Added: Twitter profile, list, likes
** Added: Facebook post, activity, photo, video, media, question, note
[[Category:Advanced Topics]]
{{Copyedit}}