{{Languages|
{{en|FAQ}}
{{ja|FAQ}}
{{ko|FAQ}}
{{th|F_A_Q}}
{{zh-cn|FAQ}}
{{zh-tw|FAQ}}
{{pt|FAQ}}
{{tr|SSS}}
}}

If you have a question '''and answer''' that is not asked and answered on these pages, please add that to the appropriate FAQ or visit [[FAQ Work Page]].  Codex Volunteers will merge your contribution into the appropriate area.

If you have a question that is not answered, please visit the [http://wordpress.org/support/ WordPress Support Forum] for assistance from the experts.

;[[FAQ About WordPress|FAQ About WordPress]] :Information and resources about WordPress including history, features, semantics, glossary, and information to help you determine whether or not WordPress is the blogging tool for you.

;[[FAQ New To WordPress|FAQ New To WordPress]] :Answers to questions frequently asked by new WordPress users, helping you get started with your WordPress site.

;[[FAQ Installation|FAQ Installation]] : Answers to questions involving installation, advanced installation, using FTP, MySQL, PHP, importing from other blog software, and upgrading WordPress. 

; [[FAQ Troubleshooting|FAQ Troubleshooting]] :Answers to questions about troubleshooting and problem-solving your WordPress site including passwords, database errors and issues, sending referrers errors, and more.

; [[FAQ Security|FAQ Security]] :Answers to where and how to report WordPress security issues.

; [[FAQ Working with WordPress|FAQ Working with WordPress]] :Answers to questions frequently asked about how to administrate your WordPress site including administration, user levels, moderating comments, comment spam, and other administrative tasks.

; [[Combating_Comment_Spam/FAQ|FAQ Combating Comment Spam]] :Answers to questions about WordPress anti-spam solutions.

; [[FAQ Layout and Design|FAQ Layout and Design]] :Answers to questions regarding how to use WordPress Themes and how to customize the look of your site and theme including customizing templates, using template tags, CSS, and other design and layout issues.

; [[FAQ Advanced Topics|FAQ Advanced Topics]] :Answers to more technical questions about using WordPress including working with conditional tags, customizing the WordPress Loop, and changing core behavior.

; [[FAQ Developer Documentation|FAQ Developer Documentation]] :Answers to questions about WordPress Development and development issues.

; [[FAQ Codex|FAQ Codex]] :Answers to questions about the WordPress Codex, including how to help, how to contribute, and who is involved.

; [[FAQ Forums|FAQ Forums]] :Answers to questions about the [http://wordpress.org/support/ WordPress Support Forums], including how to help, how to contribute, and who is involved.

; [[FAQ Forum Hot Topics]] :Details questions that are currently being asked and answered at the [http://wordpress.org/support/ WordPress Support Forums]. 

; [[Switching_to_PHP5|FAQ Switching to PHP5]] :Questions about moving to PHP5 for WordPress and your web host.

==Original Codex FAQ Information==

* [[FAQ Old]]

or the specific answers to the frequently asked questions on the [[FAQ Old]]

* [[Answers-Installation]]
* [[Answers-Configuration]]
* [[Answers-Modifying]]
* [[Answers-Troubleshooting]]

[[Category:WordPress Help]]
[[Category:Troubleshooting]]