{{Languages|
{{en|FAQ Forum Hot Topics}}
{{pt-br|FAQ Tópicos do Fórum}}

}}

The purpose of this page is to detail the most common questions asked and answered in the [http://wordpress.org/support/ WordPress Support Forums].
Please add, edit, or remove, questions and answers as appropriate.

== Encrypted theme decoding thread ==

This was originally posted by Otto42 in <a href="http://wordpress.org/support/topic/300761?replies=195">this thread</a> - 

Hopefully this will help some people, and avoid posts to the forum about encrypted theme files. Use these tools to decode them yourself.

<strong>Better yet, avoid encrypted themes entirely</strong>. They're <em>always</em> malicious in some fashion. There is no legitimate reason for a theme author to encrypt a theme file.

This page will let you decode the encryption that seems most commonplace, the one that looks like `$o=whatever`:
http://ottodestruct.com/decoder.php

I based the interface for it off of this one, which will decode the type of encryption that starts with `$_F=__FILE__`:
http://www.tareeinternet.com/scripts/byterun.php

Another one is here, for those that look like `eval(gzinflate(base64_decode('...')));`:
http://www.tareeinternet.com/scripts/decrypt.php

This site supports a whole lot of different decoding methods, and he's adding new ones all the time. All you have to do is upload the encoded file and it spits out the decoded one:
http://cyko.decodethe.net/ (also try http://base64-encoder-online.waraxe.us/ )

(Yes, I know they're not really "encrypted", they're obfuscated. Semantics.)

Please, before addint to this thread asking for someone to decode an encrypted theme, actually try it out yourself first through the methods above.

== Webpage/Dashboard is Blank ==
When attempting to view a webpage or the administration dashboard a blank page is shown.

'''Please try the following:'''
* Deactivate your plugins, by [[FAQ_Troubleshooting#How_to_deactivate_all_plugins_when_not_able_to_access_the_administrative_menus.3F|renaming the plugins folder.]]
* Activate the default theme by renaming the folder of the currently active theme.<br />
:: Themes are located in <code>/wp-content/themes/</code>
* Do a fresh installation of WordPress by first downloading it again from [http://wordpress.org/download/ http://wordpress.org/download/] and then replacing everything but the contents of <code>/wp-content/</code>

== Error Messages ==
Sometimes problems result in an error message being output onscreen, the following are some of the more common error messages.

=== Error establishing a database conection ===
It could be one of the following:
* You could have mistyped the database information in your wp-config file
* You may have entered non-alphanumeric characters in your DB login information.  If so, replace the <code>'</code>'s enclosing your username, database name, and password with <code>"</code>'s.
* Are you sure the DB you are trying to use exists?  Check with your web host to make sure.

=== Headers already sent by... ===
It most likely means that you have a space or other unnecessary content before the first <code><?php</code> in one of your files.  For more detailed info, read this: [http://codex.wordpress.org/Answers-Troubleshooting#Headers_already_sent/ http://codex.wordpress.org/Answers-Troubleshooting#Headers_already_sent/]

== How do I turn off the WYSIWYG editor and get my Quicktags back? ==
You can turn off the WYSIWYG editor by unchecking the box, <strong>Use the visual rich editor when writing</strong>, in Your Profile panel; [[Administration_Panels|Administration]] > [[Administration_Panels#Your_Profile|Profile]] > [[Your_Profile_SubPanel|Your Profile]].  That check box can be found at the bottom left on that panel.

== Uploads ==
Problems or questions pertaining to the use of uploads in Wordpress.

=== Uploads stop working after upgrading WordPress ===
Following a WordPress upgrade you may find uploads stop working. The exact cause of this problem remains unknown, but some users report fixing the problem by simply resaving their upload settings.

If you experience this problem, please try the following.

# Navigate to [[Settings_Miscellaneous_SubPanel|Admin > Settings > Misc]]
# Click the Save Changes button at the bottom.
# Attempt to upload a file as normal.

'''NOTE:''' If a media item fails to upload, broken uploads will not be fixed by following the above procedure, a new media item should be uploaded to verify if the fix was successful.

=== How do I change the file upload path? ===
The default upload path can be changed by adding a line of code to your [[Editing_wp-config.php|wp-config.php file]].

Just BEFORE the line that says <code>require_once(ABSPATH.'wp-settings.php');</code> add this line:
 <code>define('UPLOADS', 'wp-content/myimages');</code>

In the example above, this will result in uploads being placed in your <code>wp-content/myimages</code> folder.  If 'uploads_use_yearmonth_folders' is enabled your uploads will be saved in <code>wp-content/myimages/2009/01</code> where 2009 is the current year, and 01 is the current month, in this case January.  

If the myimages directory does not exist it will be created as long as the parent folder <code>wp-content</code> is writeable.

=== Further reading ===
For additional information relating to using or configuring uploads in WordPress, please see the following pages.
* [[Miscellaneous_Options_SubPanel#Miscellaneous_Settings|Upload Settings]]
* [[Function_Reference/wp_upload_dir|wp_upload_dir()]]
* [[Changing File Permissions]]

== Why is my comment count not increasing? ==
If you are running Spam-Karma (http://unknowngenius.com/blog/wordpress/spam-karma/), upgrade to version 2.1.

If you are NOT running Spam-Karma, then delete your <code>wp-content/cache</code> directory.  If that doesn't work, you should use [[phpMyAdmin]] to decrease, by one, the number stored in the <code>db_version</code> record of your <code>wp_options</code> table, and then run <code>upgrade.php</code> again.

Please also see the following related forum threads.
http://wordpress.org/support/topic/53158#post-291151
http://wordpress.org/support/topic/53509

== How do I stop my Flash and HTML tags from being stripped in my Posts? ==
Disable the WYSIWYG editor or click the HTML icon and enter code in
the popup box.

<div style="display:none">
	'''Forum Copyable Suggestions'''<br />
	<nowiki>Disable the WYSIWYG editor or click the HTML icon and enter code in
	the popup box.</nowiki>

	'''Forum Copyable Suggestions'''<br />
	<nowiki>If you are running Spam-Karma (http://unknowngenius.com/blog/wordpress/spam-karma/), upgrade to version 2.1.  
	If you are NOT running Spam-Karma, then delete your <code>wp-content/cache</code> directory.  If that doesn't work, you should use [[phpMyAdmin]] to decrease, by one, the number stored in the <code>db_version</code> record of your <code>wp_options</code> table, and then run <code>upgrade.php</code> again.

	'''Forum Copyable Suggestions'''<br />
	<nowiki>You can turn off the WYSIWYG editor by unchecking the box, <strong>Use the visual rich editor when writing</strong>, in Your Profile panel; [[Administration_Panels|Administration]] > [[Administration_Panels#Your_Profile|Profile]] > [[Your_Profile_SubPanel|Your Profile]].  That check box can be found at the bottom left on that panel.</nowiki>

	'''Forum Copyable Suggestions'''<br />
<nowiki>It most likely means that you have a space or other unnecessary content before the first <code><?php</code> in one of your files.  For more detailed info, read this: <a href="http://codex.wordpress.org/Answers-Troubleshooting#Headers_already_sent">http://codex.wordpress.org/Answers-Troubleshooting#Headers_already_sent</a></nowiki>

	'''Forum Copyable Suggestions'''<br />
	<nowiki>Try the following:
	<ul>
		<li>Deactivate your plugins by renaming your plugins folder at `/wp-content/plugins/` via FTP</li>
		<li>Temporarily switch to the default theme by moving/deleting all other themes from `/wp-content/themes`</li>
		<li>Do a fresh installation of WordPress by first downloading it again from http://wordpress.org/download/ and then replacing everything but the contents of `/wp-content/`</li>
	</ul>
	</nowiki>

	'''Forum Copyable Suggestions'''<br />
	<nowiki>It could be one of the following:
	<ul>
		<li>You could have mistyped the database information in your wp-config file</li><li>You may have entered non-alphanumeric characters in your DB login information.  If so, replace the <code>'</code>'s enclosing your username, database name, and password with <code>"</code>'s.</li>
		<li>Are you sure the DB you are trying to use exists?  Check with your web host to make sure.</li>
	</ul>
	</nowiki>
</div>

== See Also ==
[[Support_Forum_Volunteers]]


[[FAQ|Back to FAQ]]
[[Category:Forum]]
[[Category:Troubleshooting]]
[[Category:WordPress Help]]