{{Languages|
{{en|WordPress MU}}
{{fi|fi:WordPress MU}}
{{ja|WordPress MU}}
{{th|เวิร์ดเพรส MU}}
{{zh-cn|WordPressMU}}
{{ru|ru:WordPress MU}}
}}
__TOC__
==<span style="color:red">WordPress MU:ta ei enää kehitetä aktiivisesti erillisenä ohjelmistona. Sen ominaisuudet on liitetty perusohjelmaan WordPress 3.0;ssa. Voit [[WordPressin asennus|asentaa WordPressin]] ja [[Luo verkko|luoda verkon]]. Sen toiminnallisuus on pääosin sama.</span>==



[[WPMU|WordPress MU]], or WordPressµ, is the multi-user version of WordPress. It is ideal for people who want to set up a large network of blogs. WordPress MU is the underlying software that powers the [http://wordpress.com/ WordPress.com] hosted blogging service. WordPress MU is also used by newspapers, magazines, blog networks, universities and large companies running corporate blogging systems behind firewalls. 

Using the WordPress multi-user edition, you will be able offer users an opportunity to sign up for a new blog. They will be able to securely manage their templates and settings without affecting any other users. You can have unlimited users with unlimited blogs, and users can have various roles (administrator, editor, author, contributor, subscriber) on each other's blogs. One or more Site Administrators can perform site-wide management tasks, including adding users and blogs, altering permissions and granting access to themes.

== WordPress MU Features ==

WordPress MU Plugins and Themes are controlled by a central system administrator. Unlike the single-user version of WordPress, individual WPMU bloggers cannot upload their own WordPress Plugins and Themes. The users can only select from the ones made available by the system administrator. Individual themes can be made available to all blogs or just to specific ones.

=== WordPress Mu Host Benefits ===

* Ability to create a hosted "community" of users.
* Ability to host thousands of users on one site.
* Opportunity to provide free hosting as an alternative to paid hosting services.
* Ability to limit sign-up to specific email domains if required.
* Various options for adding Plugins and administration features.
* Customization of the administration panels.
* Ability to add WordPress Themes, increasing user choices.
* Ability to control WordPress Themes, limiting user choices per site needs.
* Security precautions and protections in place.
* Easy addition of comment spam protection through Plugins.

=== WordPress MU User Benefits ===

While WordPress MU users are blogging with a restricted version of WordPress, able to choose from WordPress Themes and Plugin options as set by the Administrator, there are still a lot of benefits.

* No installation or setup. Enter user name and password and blog.
* A chance to test drive WordPress at little or no risk.
* Choose WordPress Themes that have been tested and are ready for use - no fuss, no muss.
* Part of a community, with potential for community relationships through competition and awareness.
* Comment spam protection built-in.

WordPress MU is designed for hosts to offer hosting of WordPress blogs to individual users. WordPress MU is free, as is the single hosted version of [http://www.wordpress.org/download WordPress].

== WordPress MU Support and Installation ==

For information on installing and setting up a WordPress MU site, see [[Installing WPMU]]. 

For support and information on installing and using WordPress MU, visit the [http://mu.wordpress.org WordPress MU] website and [http://mu.wordpress.org/forums WordPress MU Support Forum].

If you are a WordPress MU user click on the Feedback button in your Dashboard.  Some help may be found within the WordPress Codex in the articles listed on [[WPMU]] or in [http://donncha.wordpress.com/2005/09/23/wordpresscom-faq/ Donncha's FAQ]. 

* There are some special [[WPMU Plugins]] and not all WordPress Plugins work with WPMU, see [[WPMU Plugin Compatibility]]
* There are [[WPMU Functions]] and [[WPMU Global Variables]] that should use to interact with WPMU's multiuser features
* WordPress Plugins and Widgets can be modified to become [[WPMU Widgets]].
* The code can be checked out from the [[WPMU SVN Repository]]. 
* There is the [[WPMU IRC Channel]] for real time help and chat.
* Information is available about how the tables are set up in [[WPMU Database Description]].

For more information, see the Codex Table of Contents for [[WPMU]] or the [[:Category:WPMU]].

=== Other Helpful Resources ===

* [http://wordpress.org/development/ WordPress Development Blog - Information on WordPress in General]
* [http://www.devlounge.net/articles/using-wordpress-mu-to-power-multiple-blogs Using WordPress MU to Power Multiple Blogs] at DevLounge (13DEC07)
*[http://mu.word-press.hu WordPress Mu Magyar Információs oldal (Hungarian)]
* [http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/tags/wpmu Plugins for WordPress MU]
* [http://wpmututorials.com/ WordPress MU tutorials and how-to articles]

== Support Articles for WordPress.com Users ==

The following is a list of documentation on the WordPress Codex that may help answer your questions about posting, creating categories and [[Pages]], and managing your WordPress blog on WordPress MU. 

For answers to specific questions about using WordPress.com, visit the [http://faq.wordpress.com/ WordPress.com FAQ] and the [http://wordpress.com/forums WordPress.com Support Forums].

* [[First_Steps_With_WordPress|First Steps With WordPress]]
* [[Introduction_to_Blogging|Introduction to Blogging]]
* [[First_Steps_With_WordPress|First Steps With WordPress]]
* [[WordPress_Semantics|WordPress Semantics - Learning the Jargon and Terminology of WordPress]]
* [[Writing_Posts|Writing Posts in WordPress]]
* [[HTML_to_XHTML|HTML to XHTML - Learning the Difference]]
* [[Pages|Understanding Pseudo-Static Pages in WordPress]]
* [[WordPress_Feeds|Understanding WordPress Feeds]]
* [[Writing_Code_in_Your_Posts|How to Write Code in WordPress Posts]]
* [[Blog_by_Email|Blog by Email]]
* [[Administration_Panels|WordPress Administration Panels (core content is the same - the look is a little different)]]
* [[Podcasting|Podcasting With WordPress]]
* [[Linking_Posts_Pages_and_Categories|Linking to WordPress Posts, Pages, and Categories]]
* [[Using_Smilies|Using Smilies in WordPress]]
* [[Discussion_Options|Understanding WordPress Admin Discussion Options for Comments]]
* [[Links_Manager|Using WordPress Links Manager - The Blogroll]]
* [[Current_events|WordPress Current Events Information]]
* [[Finding_WordPress_Help|Finding More WordPress Help and Tips]]

=== Other Articles on Using WordPress.com ===

* [http://lorelle.wordpress.com/2006/07/29/what-do-i-do-with-my-new-wordpresscom-blog/ What Do I Do With My New WordPress.com Blog]
* [http://blogging.wordpress.com/ WordPress.com and Blogging Tips, Tricks, Themes, and Plugins]
* [http://leita.wordpress.com/2005/11/22/new-to-wordpresscom-tips-to-get-started-fast/ New to WordPress.com - Tips to Get Started Fast]
*[http://www.lucidgreen.net/wordpressGuides/everymansWPCOMinstall.pdf Everyman's Guide to WordPress.Com "installation" - Step-by-step guide to setting up a WordPress.com blog]
*[http://blog-well.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/01/how-to-redirect-a-wordpresscom-blog.pdf/ Step-by-step guide to redirect a WordPress.com blog]
* [http://lorelle.wordpress.com/2005/08/26/attention-wordpress-theme-designers-designing-themes-for-wordpressmu/ Attention WordPress Theme Designers and Authors - Designing WordPress Themes for WordPress MU]
* [http://lorelle.wordpress.com/2005/08/21/choosing-a-wordpress-theme/ Choosing a WordPress Theme]
* [http://lorelle.wordpress.com/tag/wordpress-tips/ Lorelle's WordPress Tips and Techniques]

[[Category:About WordPress]]
[[Category:WPMU]]
[[Category:WordPress.com]]