{{Languages|
{{en|Formatting Date and Time}}
{{de|Formatierung von Datum und Uhrzeit}}
{{fr|Modifier_Date_et_Heure}}
{{ja|Formatting Date and Time}}
{{pt-br|Formatando Data e Hora}}
{{ru|Форматирование даты и времени}}
{{zh-cn|自定义时间和日期格式}}
{{zh-tw|自訂時間和日期}}
{{it|Formattare Data e Ora}}
{{ko|Formatting Date and Time}}
}}

==Customizing the Time and Date==

Certain WordPress tag functions are used to display or return date and time information; [[Template Tags/the date|the_date()]] and [[Template Tags/the time|the_time()]] are examples of this. Some of these functions accept a parameter called a format string that allows you to determine how the date is going to be displayed. The format string is a template in which various parts of the date are combined (using "format characters") to generate a date in the format specified.

For example, the format string:

 l, F j, Y

creates a date that look like this: 

 Friday, September 24, 2004

Here is what each format character in the string above represents: 

* <code>l</code> = Full name for day of the week (lower-case L).
* <code>F</code> = Full name for the month.
* <code>j</code> = The day of the month.
* <code>Y</code> = The year in 4 digits. (lower-case y gives the year's last 2 digits)
: (Commas are read literally.)

WordPress is written in the programming language [[Glossary#PHP|PHP]].  The date formatting functions in WordPress use PHP's built-in date formatting functions. You can use the [http://php.net/date table of date format characters on the PHP website] as a reference for building date format strings for use in WordPress.  Here is a table of some of the more useful items found there:

{| class="widefat"
|- 
! style="background:#eee" colspan="3" | Day of Month
|-
| d
| Numeric, with leading zeros
| 01&ndash;31
|-
| j
| Numeric, without leading zeros
| 1&ndash;31
|-
| S
| The English suffix for the day of the month
| st, nd or th in the 1st, 2nd or 15th.
|- 
! style="background:#eee" colspan="3" | Weekday
|-
| l
| Full name &nbsp;(lowercase 'L')
| Sunday &ndash; Saturday
|-
| D
| Three letter name
| Mon &ndash; Sun
|- 
! style="background:#eee" colspan="3" | Month
|-
| m
| Numeric, with leading zeros
| 01&ndash;12
|-
| n
| Numeric, without leading zeros
| 1&ndash;12
|-
| F
| Textual full
| January &ndash; December
|-
| M
| Textual three letters
| Jan - Dec
|- 
! style="background:#eee" colspan="3" | Year
|-
| Y
| Numeric, 4 digits
| Eg., 1999, 2003
|-
| y
| Numeric, 2 digits
| Eg., 99, 03
|- 
! style="background:#eee" colspan="3" | Time
|-
| a
| Lowercase
| am, pm
|-
| A
| Uppercase
| AM, PM
|-
| g
| Hour, 12-hour, without leading zeros
| 1&ndash;12
|-
| h
| Hour, 12-hour, with leading zeros
| 01&ndash;12
|-
| G
| Hour, 24-hour, without leading zeros
| 0-23
|-
| H
| Hour, 24-hour, with leading zeros
| 00-23
|-
| i
| Minutes, with leading zeros
| 00-59
|-
| s
| Seconds, with leading zeros
| 00-59
|-
| T
| Timezone abbreviation
| Eg., EST, MDT ...
|- 
! style="background:#eee" colspan="3" | Full Date/Time
|-
| c
| ISO 8601
| 2004-02-12T15:19:21+00:00
|-
| r
| RFC 2822
| Thu, 21 Dec 2000 16:01:07 +0200
|-
| U
| Unix timestamp (seconds since Unix Epoch)
| 1455880176
|}

===Examples===

Here are some examples of date format and result output.

* <code>F j, Y g:i a</code> - November 6, 2010 12:50 am
* <code>F j, Y</code> - November 6, 2010
* <code>F, Y</code> - November, 2010
* <code>g:i a</code> - 12:50 am
* <code>g:i:s a</code> - 12:50:48 am
* <code>l, F jS, Y</code> - Saturday, November 6th, 2010
* <code>M j, Y @ G:i</code> - Nov 6, 2010 @ 0:50
* <code>Y/m/d \a\t g:i A</code> - 2010/11/06 at 12:50 AM
* <code>Y/m/d \a\t g:ia</code> - 2010/11/06 at 12:50am
* <code>Y/m/d g:i:s A</code> - 2010/11/06 12:50:48 AM
* <code>Y/m/d</code> - 2010/11/06

Combined with <code>the_time()</code> template tag, the code below in the template file:

 This entry was posted on <?php the_time('l, F jS, Y') ?> and is filed under <?php the_category(', ') ?>.

will be shown on your site as following:
 
 This entry was posted on Friday, September 24th, 2004 and is filed under <u>WordPress</u> and <u>WordPress Tips</u>.

===Localization===

To localize dates, use the [[Function_Reference/date_i18n|date_i18n()]] function.

You can probably safely localize these date format strings with the <code>__()</code>, <code>_e()</code>, etc. functions (demonstrated with <code>get_the_date(__(…))</code>):

===Escaping===

You can escape custom characters using the <code>\letter</code> format.  For example you would escape the text <code>at</code> with  <code>\a\t</code>.  


[[Category:WordPress Lessons]]
[[Category:Design and Layout]]
[[Category:UI Link]]