{{French Header}}
{{Stub}}
WordPress relies heavily on the presentation styles within CSS. With the introduction of [[Using Themes|WordPress v1.5 Themes]], your layout options haven't just expanded, they've exploded!  WordPress has made it easier than ever to change your website look, and opened up the field even more to help you [[Theme Development|create your own Theme]] and page layout.

[[Glossary#CSS|CSS]] stands for '''Cascading Style Sheets'''.  It allows you to store style presentation information (like colors and layout) separate from your HTML structure.  This allows precision control of your website layout and makes your pages faster and easier to update.

This article briefly describes the use of CSS in WordPress, and lists some references for further information.  For information on CSS itself, see [[Know Your Sources#CSS]].

==WordPress et le CSS==

WordPress Themes use a combination of [[Templates|template files]], [[Template Tags|template tags]], and CSS style sheets to generate your WordPress site's look.

;Template Files :[[Stepping Into Templates|Template files]] are the building blocks which come together to create your site. In the [[Site Architecture 1.5|WordPress Theme structure]], the header, sidebar, content, and footer are all contained within individual files. They join together to create your page. This allows you to customize the building blocks. For example, in the Default WordPress Theme, the multi-post view found on the front page, category, [[Creating_an_Archive_Index|archives]], and [[Creating_a_Search_Page|search]] web pages on your site, the sidebar is present. Click on any post, you will be taken to the single post view and the sidebar will now be gone. You can [[The Loop in Action|choose which parts and pieces appear]] on your page, and customize them individually, allowing for a different header or sidebar to appear on all pages within a specific category. And more. For a more extensive introduction to Templates, see [[Stepping Into Templates]].
;Template Tags :Template tags are the bits of code which provide instructions and requests for information stored within the WordPress database. Some of these are highly configurable, allowing you to customize the date, time, lists, and other elements displayed on your website. You can learn more about template tags in [[Stepping Into Template Tags]].
;CSS Style Sheets :This is where it all comes together. On every template file within your site, there are [[Site Architecture 1.5|XHTML tags and CSS references]] wrapped around your template tags and content. In the style sheet within each Theme are commands for the page's structure. Without these instructions, your page would simply look like a long typed page.  With these instructions, you can move the building block structures around, making your header very long and filled with graphics or photographs, or simple and narrow. Your site can "float" in the middle of the viewer's screen with space on the left and right, or stretch across the screen, filling the whole page. Your sidebar can be on the right or left, or even start midway down the page. How you style your page is up to you. But the instructions for styling are found in the <tt>style.css</tt> file within each Theme folder.

To help you understand more about how CSS works in relationship to your web page, you may wish to read some of the articles cited in these lists:

* [[Templates]] - Comprehensive list of WordPress Theme and Template articles (a good starting point is [[Using Themes]], and there are also many advanced articles in this list)
* [[Blog Design and Layout]] - Comprehensive list of resources related to site design in WordPress
* [[WordPress Lessons]] - Lessons on all aspects of WordPress

== Aide à la Mise en Page de WordPress ==

If you are having some problems or questions about your WordPress Theme or layout, begin by checking the website of the Theme author to see if there is an upgrade or answers to your questions. Here are some other resources:

* [[WordPress Lessons#Designing Your WordPress Site|Lessons on Designing Your WordPress Site]]
* [[Site Architecture 1.5]]
* [[CSS Troubleshooting]]
* [[Finding Your CSS Styles]]
* [[CSS Fixing Browser Bugs]]
* [[Validating a Website]]
* [[FAQ Layout and Design]]
* [[Templates]]
* [http://www.wordpress.org/support/ WordPress Support Forums]
* [http://www.tamba2.org.uk/wordpress/graphicalcss/ WordPress CSS Guides by Podz]
* [[CSS Shorthand]]
* [[HTML to XHTML]] <span style="color:red">NEW!</span>

[[Category:Design and Layout]]
[[Category:Translating WordPress]]