{{Draft}} 

{{Languages|
{{en|Installing WordPress in Your Language}}
{{bs|Instalacija WordPressa na vašem jeziku}}
{{fr|Installer WordPress dans votre langue}}
{{ja|Installing WordPress in Your Language}}
{{pt-br|Instalando WordPress em seu Idioma}}
{{sk|Inštalácia WordPress vo vašom jazyku}}
{{zh-cn|使用您的母语安装WordPress}}
}}

WordPress utilise l'anglais des États-Unis comme langue par défaut, mais il est conçu pour être utilisé dans toute langue. La communauté WordPress a déjà traduit WordPress dans plusieurs langues. Il y a également des thèmes, des fichiers de traduction et du soutien disponible dans plusieurs langues. Consultez [[WordPress in Your Language]] (en anglais) pour en savoir plus. 

Pour installer une version traduite de WordPress, vous avez deux choix:

# Follow the instructions provided for your language listed at [[WordPress in Your Language]]
# If specific instructions are not available, follow the instructions below to manually install language files to your Wordpress site.

== Manually Installing Language Files ==

Here are the steps you will need to follow to install an international version of WordPress.

'''Note:''' If you make an error in the steps or you do not specify the correct language, WordPress will default back to English. For more help Installing WordPress, see [[Installing WordPress]] and [[FAQ Installation]].

* Download the <tt>.mo</tt> language file for your language (see [[WordPress in Your Language]] for hints on how to find one). The naming convention of the <tt>.mo</tt> files is based on the ISO-639 language code (e.g. ''pt'' for Portuguese) followed by the ISO-3166 country code (e.g. ''_PT'' for Portugal or ''_BR'' for Brazil). So, the Brazilian Portuguese file would be called <tt>pt_BR.mo</tt>, and a non-specific Portuges file would be called <tt>pt.mo</tt>.  Complete lists of codes can be found at  [http://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/manual/html_chapter/gettext_16.html#Country-Codes (country codes)]  and [http://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/manual/html_chapter/gettext_16.html#Language-Codes (language codes)].   You can use this plugin to automatically download language files stored in the wordpress svn repository [http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/wp-native-dashboard/ wp-native-dashboard].

* On your site server, create a new folder in your <tt>/wp-content</tt> OR <tt>/wp-includes</tt> directory called <tt>/languages</tt>.

* Upload the .mo file to the <tt>languages</tt> folder you just created.

=== Single-Site Installations ===

* Open your wp-config.php file in a [[Glossary#Text_editor|text editor]] and search for:
<pre>define ('WPLANG', '');</pre>

* Edit this line according to the <tt>.mo</tt> file you've just downloaded, e.g. for the Portuguese spoken in Brazil you must add:
<pre>define ('WPLANG', 'pt_BR');</pre>

* Note that if the .mo and .po files don't exist for a language code called for in wp-config.php then there is no error message, but the code is still used in language_attributes(). This is useful for those of us whose language is similar enough to en_US not to require translation, but who don't want en-US as the language tag in the blog, instead wanting some other variant of English. For example:

<pre>define ('WPLANG', 'en_GB');</pre>

* Once you've added your language code, save the file.

*  Upload the modified <tt>wp-config.php</tt> file into the WordPress root directory.

* Open your browser and go to your WordPress site. It should now display in the newly-installed language.

=== Multi-Site Installations ===

If you have a [[Create_A_Network|site network]] (Wordpress multisite), the language is set on a per-blog basis through the "Site language" option in the Settings->General subpanel.

You can set the default language for the entire network under the Network Admin->Settings panel ("Default Language").

=== Additional Customization ===

If you want to customize the translations displayed on your screen, or add translations for terms that are still displaying in English after installation, you will need to download the <tt>.po</tt> file corresponding to the <tt>.mo</tt> language file you installed. Then you will need to translate additional terms and create a new <tt>.mo</tt> file -- see [[Translating WordPress]] for more information.

You may also need to translate a few other files -- see [[Files For Direct Translation]] for more information.

[[Category:Translating WordPress]]
[[Category:Advanced Topics]]
[[Category:WordPress Development]]