{{Languages|
{{en|Finding Your CSS Styles}}
}}

{{French Header}}
{{Stub}}

Ce qui suit ne concerne pas le choix d'un [[Using Themes|Thème WordPress]], mais plutôt de rechercher les styles CSS dans le thème actuellement installé. Il arrive souvent qu'un problème survienne dans la mise en page de votre thème.  Par exemple, il y a une bordure que vous ne souhaitez pas entre le menu de la barre latérale et le reste de la page. Vous cherchez encore et encore mais mais vous ne trouvez aucune référence à cette bordure. Alors que faire ?

==Jouer les détectives CSS==

Commençons par jouer au détective CSS. Vous constatez le problème, vous n'arrivez pas à trouver son origine. Dans l'exemple ci-dessus, vous devez rechercher une bordure.

Commencez par examiner attentivement une page créée et affichée (ou une page de test) et recherchez un texte caractéristique dans la barre latérale, près de la bordure indésirable. Disons que dans la barre latérale vous avez un titre intitulé "Tout sur Hermione". Vous savez que vous trouverez ce titre dans votre barre latérale lorsque vous affichez le code source de la page.

Pour afficher le code source d"une page, allez dans la menu de votre navigateur et choisissez '''VUE > SOURCE DE LA ¨PAGE or VUE > SOURCE'''. Cela peut différer selon votre navigateur. Par exemple avec Firefox, vous faites un clic droit sur votre page, puis '''Code source de la page'''. Vous devez alors avoir maintenant le code source affiché.

Use your handy detective tool, '''Ctrl+F''', to activate your search.  Type in "all about harry" and click '''FIND'''.  Odds are, unless you have the words "all about harry" in your post, it will take you to the first showing of the phrase "all about harry" which is probably in your sidebar.  If not, hit FIND again until you've found the right phrase in the right area.

If you are using Internet Explorer, an alternate method is to use the Internet Explorer Developer Toolbar, which allows you to visually see and select the elements, IDs, and classes on the page. It displays the elements within the hierarchy of the page, their CSS attributes, and can outline DIVs, tables, etc. You can download the Toolbar from [http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?FamilyID=e59c3964-672d-4511-bb3e-2d5e1db91038&DisplayLang=en Microsoft].

Once you've found the phrase, it's time to play CSS detective.  Look up through the code from the phrase "All About Harry" for one of two things.  It will look something like either of these, using words like '''sidebar''', '''menu''', or '''sidecolumn''':

<pre><div id="sidebar">

or

<div class="sidebar"></pre>

This is the main section that contains your sidebar menu.  You've found the first suspect.

Now, open your <tt>style.css</tt> file and do another search for '''sidebar''' or whatever the resulting name was that you uncovered.  It is usually identified in two ways:

<pre>#sidebar

or

.sidebar</pre>

Look in the styles under these CSS '''selectors''' and see if there is a mention of border, often looking something like this:

<pre>#sidebar {position: relative; float: right; width: 170px;
    color: blue; font-size: 90%; border-right: solid 1px blue; }</pre>

There is your border, the criminal!  If this is the guilty party, delete the reference to the border and you are good to go.

If it isn't, the hunt continues.

Sometimes the culprit is the one you least suspect.  Maybe the border is not caused by the obvious suspect, the ''sidebar'', but by the '''content''' section.  Return to the generated page source code and search for the first words of your post.  Look above that for something like:

<pre><div id="content"></pre>

It could be called '''content''', '''page'''. '''post''', '''maincolumn''', '''widecolumn''', or have another alias, but it should be the CSS ''container'' that holds your post information.  Now, go back to the style sheet and check to see if there is a border in that section.

==Frisk the Style Sheet==
If all of these fail, the CSS detective never gives up the hunt.  Return to the hiding place of all styles, the <tt>style.css</tt> file, and ''frisk it'' by doing a search for "border" and look carefully at each suspect.  Note the selector ID name, like '''sidebar''', '''menu''', '''content''' and '''page''', and then go back to the generated page source to see if that might be your culprit.

You can also select the border suspect you've found on the style sheet and '''cut and paste''' it into a TXT file (like Notepad) that just sits open on your computer like a scratch notepad.  Make a note of which selector name you removed it from like this:

 Removed border: solid 2px green from #content

Then save the edited <tt>style.css</tt> and upload it to your site. [[I_Make_Changes_and_Nothing_Happens|Refresh]] the generated test post and see if the unwanted border is gone.  If so, you found the culprit.  If not, return to the Notepad and copy the code and put it back into your <tt>style.css</tt> in the "content" section, putting things back where you found it.

If you do find your culprit, do a little dance, squeal and cheer, and make others suspicious and nervous when they are around you.  The CSS detective solves another CSS crime!

==More CSS Troubleshooting Help==
* [[CSS Fixing Browser Bugs]]
* [[CSS Troubleshooting]]

[[Category:WordPress Lessons]]
[[Category:Troubleshooting]]
[[Category:Design and Layout]]