===How do I login to edit my website?===
Your website should have a link somewhere on the front page that says "Log In". Though if it does not, you may log in at www.yourwebsite.com/wp-admin

===What do I do if I forgot my username or password?===
On the login page there is a link that says "Lost your password?", select this and follow the instructions it provides.
===What is the Dashboard and how do I use it?===
The Dashboard, a semantic of WordPress, is the first page you come to when you log in. Essentially, it is an overview of all of the activity on your website. Though it may not may not be useful to you as a new user, over time you will understand it's purpose more clearly.

It may be beneficial for you to review the rest of the training materials before attempting to fully understand the Dashboard.

===What areas can I edit on my website?===
Because each WordPress website can have a unique template, the editable area's can vary. We will address the questions below assuming the developer, or development team, you hired followed the common structure for what area's are editable on a website.

If you find yourself unable to edit areas of your website that you expected or want to, you should contact the developer, or development team, you hired for your project.

Typically users can edit three main areas on their website:
*Pages
*Posts
*Navigation

If your WordPress website does not contain a blog, you may not need to know how to edit posts.

====How do I edit those areas?====
*To edit a page, follow the instructions in this section.
*To edit a post, follow the instructions in this section.
*To edit your navigation, follow the instructions in this section.

====What can't I edit on my website and why?====
Developers don't usually allow users to edit the layout, fonts, colors and other similar visual elements of a website. The reason for this is that designing a website well, though seemingly simple, is a critical step in creating a successful and useful website. Without proper training and experience, you can damage your online presence in search engine rankings, social media outlets and among new visitors to your website. Considering this, it's usually wise for developers to limit the modification of the aforementioned design elements to designers and developers. This allows you to focus on creating content that represents yourself and/or your business rather then learning to become a programmer, designer or WordPress techie. 

====How do I add, remove or edit a regular page?====

====How do I add, remove or edit an article (AKA blog post)?====

===My website has a slideshow, how do I add slides to it?===
Please refer to the [[Managing Special Features]] section.

===I have a form, or multiple forms, on my website, how do I review submissions made through these forms?===
Please refer to the [[Managing Special Features]] section.

===How do I check my email?===
WordPress is unrelated to your email services, so this is a question you should ask the developer or development team you have hired for your project.

However, you can commonly access your email by entering mail.yourdomain.com, or by selecting a link along the footer of your website that will direct you to email access.

===What do I do if I break something on my website?===
It can depend on what you break, so here are a few suggestions:
*If it's urgent, an emergency, or you're simply unsure what you did to cause the issue; you should contact the developer or development team you hired for your project to assist you.
*If you can wait for a response, or can't afford to hire a developer to assist you, you can post your question in the [http://www.wordpress.org/support WordPress Support Forum].
*If you edited a regular page or post, expand the "Revisions" panel and select the most previous revisions. Follow the on screen instructions to revert back to that last state.

===What do I do if I find something difficult to use?===
*If it's urgent, an emergency, or you're simply unsure why you're having difficulty; you should contact the developer or development team you hired for your project to assist you.
*If you can wait for a response, or can't afford to hire a developer to assist you, you can post your question in the [http://www.wordpress.org/support WordPress Support Forum].

===How do I password protect a page?===
When editing a page, locate the "Publish" panel - which is commonly located in the upper right in WordPress. Select the drop down beside "Visibility" and choose:
*"Password Protect" to set a universal password any visitors must have to view the page.
*"Private" to require visitors to log in using their unique username and password you previously set for them. (For instructions on creating a new user, see "[[General_Questions_and_Training#How_do_I_create_a_new_user?|How do I create a new user?]]"

===How do I create a new user?===
To create a new user navigate to "Users" in the WordPress navigation panel and select "Add New". Populate that information, select the blue "Add New User" at the end of the form and you have successfully created a new user.

[[Category:WordPress Lessons]]
[[Category:New_page_created]]