__TOC__


WordPress does not include any geographic functionality or functions to deal with '''Geodata''' itself (something that might be called a '''Geodata API'''). But there is a standard for how to store geodata, so that plugins can interoperate.

== Where to store Geodata ? ==

Geodata for an object should be stored in the [[Metadata API | metadata]] for that object.

* Geodata for '''posts, pages and other post-types''' should be stored in '''[[Post Meta Data Section | postmeta]]'''.
* Geodata for '''users''' should be stored in '''usermeta'''.
* Geodata for '''comments''' should be stored in '''commentmeta'''.
* Geodata for '''terms''' should be stored in '''termmeta'''.

== Geodata Format ==
<span id="Schema"></span>
<span id="In_which_Format_and_Schema_to_store_Geodata.3F"></span>

Meta keys and their meta values are listed below.

; <code>geo_latitude</code> REQUIRED
: (float) decimal degrees -90 to 90 (negative values are in the southern hemisphere).

; <code>geo_longitude</code> REQUIRED
: (float) decimal degrees -180 to 180 (negative values are in the western hemisphere).

; <code>geo_public</code> OPTIONAL
: (int) is the geodata public (1) or private (0)?  If value is missing or not set to 0, assume public.

; <code>geo_address</code> OPTIONAL
: (string) freeform textual description of coordinates.
: "221B Baker St, Westminster, London NW1 6XE, UK",
: "Pasadena, CA", "Soho, NYC", "Idaho", etc.
: Accuracy level and language is arbitrary.

The W3C Geolocation API([https://dev.w3.org/geo/api/spec-source.html]), introduced in 2014, offers the additional geolocation properties of altitude, accuracy, altitudeAccuracy, speed, and heading, which if adopted by any plugin to ensure compatibility with this, should be stored with the geo_ prefix. 

[[Category:New page created]]
[[Category:Advanced_Topics]]
[[Category:API]]