{{Languages|
{{en|Global Variables}}
{{it|Variabili globali}}
{{ja|グローバル変数}}
{{zh-cn|全局变量}}
}}

== Introduction ==
WordPress-specific global variables are used throughout WordPress code for various reasons. Almost all data that WordPress generates can be found in a global variable.

Note that it's best to use the appropriate API functions when available, instead of modifying globals directly.

To access a global variable in your code, you first need to globalize the variable with <tt>global $variable;</tt>

'''Accessing other globals besides the ones listed below is not recommended.'''

===Inside the Loop variables===
While inside the loop, these globals are set, containing information about the current post being processed. 

* <tt>$post</tt> (<tt>WP_Post</tt>) The post object for the current post. Object described in [[Class_Reference/WP_Post]].
* <tt>$posts</tt> (Used by some core functions, not to be mistaken for $query->$posts).
* <tt>$authordata</tt> (<tt>WP_User</tt>) The author object for the current post. Object described in [[Class_Reference/WP_User]].
* <tt>$currentday</tt> (<tt>string</tt>) Day that the current post was published. 
* <tt>$currentmonth</tt> (<tt>string</tt>) Month that the curent post was published.
* <tt>$page</tt> (<tt>int</tt>) The page of the current post being viewed. Specified by the query var page.
* <tt>$pages</tt> (<tt>array</tt>)The content of the pages of the current post. Each page elements contains part of the content separated by the <nowiki><!--nextpage--></nowiki> tag.
* <tt>$multipage</tt> (<tt>boolean</tt>) Flag to know if the current post has multiple pages or not. Returns true if the post has multiple pages, related to $pages.
* <tt>$more</tt> (<tt>boolean</tt>) Flag to know if WordPress should enforce the <nowiki><!--more--></nowiki> tag for the current post. WordPress will not enforce the more tag if true.
* <tt>$numpages</tt> (<tt>int</tt>) Returns the number of pages in the post, related to $pages.

===Browser Detection Booleans===
These globals store data about which browser the user is on.

* <tt>$is_iphone</tt> (<tt>boolean</tt>) iPhone Safari
* <tt>$is_chrome</tt> (<tt>boolean</tt>) Google Chrome
* <tt>$is_safari</tt> (<tt>boolean</tt>) Safari
* <tt>$is_NS4</tt> (<tt>boolean</tt>) Netscape 4
* <tt>$is_opera</tt> (<tt>boolean</tt>) Opera
* <tt>$is_macIE</tt> (<tt>boolean</tt>) Mac Internet Explorer
* <tt>$is_winIE</tt> (<tt>boolean</tt>) Windows Internet Explorer
* <tt>$is_gecko</tt> (<tt>boolean</tt>) FireFox
* <tt>$is_lynx</tt> (<tt>boolean</tt>) 
* <tt>$is_IE</tt> (<tt>boolean</tt>) Internet Explorer
* <tt>$is_edge</tt> (<tt>boolean</tt>) Microsoft Edge

===Web Server Detection Booleans===
These globals store data about which web server WordPress is running on.

* <tt>$is_apache</tt> (<tt>boolean</tt>) Apache HTTP Server
* <tt>$is_IIS</tt> (<tt>boolean</tt>) Microsoft Internet Information Services (IIS)
* <tt>$is_iis7</tt> (<tt>boolean</tt>) Microsoft Internet Information Services (IIS) v7.x
* <tt>$is_nginx</tt> (<tt>boolean</tt>) Nginx web server

===Version Variables===

* <tt>$wp_version</tt> (<tt>string</tt>) The installed version of WordPress
* <tt>$wp_db_version</tt> (<tt>int</tt>) The version number of the database
* <tt>$tinymce_version</tt> (<tt>string</tt>) The installed version of TinyMCE
* <tt>$manifest_version</tt> (<tt>string</tt>) The cache manifest version
* <tt>$required_php_version</tt> (<tt>string</tt>) The version of PHP this install of WordPress requires 
* <tt>$required_mysql_version</tt> (<tt>string</tt>) The version of MySQL this install of WordPress requires 

===Misc===

* <tt>$super_admins</tt> (<tt>array</tt>) An array of user IDs that should be granted super admin privileges (multisite). This global is only set by the site owner (e.g., in <tt>wp-config.php</tt>), and contains an array of IDs of users who should have super admin privileges. If set it will override the list of super admins in the database.
* <tt>$wp_query</tt> (<tt>object</tt>) The global instance of the [[Class_Reference/WP_Query]] class.
* <tt>$wp_rewrite</tt> (<tt>object</tt>) The global instance of the [[Class_Reference/WP_Rewrite]] class.
* <tt>$wp</tt> (<tt>object</tt>) The global instance of the [[Class_Reference/WP]] class.
* <tt>$wpdb</tt> (<tt>object</tt>) The global instance of the [[Class_Reference/wpdb]] class.
* <tt>$wp_locale</tt> (<tt>object</tt>)
* <tt>$wp_admin_bar</tt> (<tt>[[Class_Reference/WP_Admin_Bar |WP_Admin_Bar]]</tt>)
* <tt>$wp_roles</tt> (<tt>[[Class_Reference/WP_Roles |WP_Roles]]</tt>) 
* <tt>$wp_meta_boxes</tt> (<tt>array</tt>) Object containing all registered metaboxes, including their id's, args, callback functions and title for all post types including custom.
* <tt>$wp_registered_sidebars</tt> (<tt>array</tt>)
* <tt>$wp_registered_widgets</tt> (<tt>array</tt>)
* <tt>$wp_registered_widget_controls</tt> (<tt>array</tt>)
* <tt>$wp_registered_widget_updates</tt> (<tt>array</tt>)

===Admin Globals===
* <tt>$pagenow</tt> (<tt>string</tt>) used in wp-admin [[Function_Reference/get_current_screen|See also get_current_screen() for the WordPress Admin Screen API]]
* <tt>$post_type</tt> (<tt>string</tt>) used in wp-admin
* <tt>$allowedposttags</tt> (<tt>array</tt>)
* <tt>$allowedtags</tt> (<tt>array</tt>)
* <tt>$menu</tt> (<tt>array</tt>)

[[Category:Advanced Topics]]