This page was moved to https://wordpress.org/support/article/history/ except above language locator.
<!--
WordPress was born out of a desire for an elegant, well-architectured personal publishing system built on PHP and MySQL and licensed under the GPL. It is the official successor of b2/cafelog. WordPress is modern software, but its roots and development go back to 2001. It is a mature and stable product. We hope that by focusing on user experience and web standards we can create a tool different from anything else out there.

'''2001''' - [http://cafelog.com/ b2 cafelog] launched by Michel Valdrighi.

'''2003''' - [[ User:Matt | Matt Mullenweg ]] and [http://mikelittle.org/ Mike Little] fork b2 and create WordPress.

'''2004''' - Plugins are introduced with [[Version_1.2 | Version 1.2 (Mingus)]].

'''2005''' - Theme system and static pages are introduced with [[Version_1.5 | Version 1.5 (Strayhorn)]], followed by persistent caching, a new user role system, and a new backend UI in [[Version_2.0 | Version 2.0 (Duke)]]. 

'''2007''' - A new UI, autosave, spell check and other new features were introduced in [[Version_2.1 | Version 2.1 (Ella)]]. Widgets, better Atom feed support, and speed optimizations came out in [[Version_2.2 | Version 2.2 (Getz)]]. And tagging, update notifications, pretty URLs and a new taxonomy system were introduced in [[Version_2.3 | Version 2.3 (Dexter)]].

'''2008''' - [[Version_2.5| Version 2.5 (Brecker)]] was released with a new administration UI design by Happy Cog, and introduced the dashboard widget system and the shortcode API. [[Version_2.6 | Version 2.6 (Tyner)]] built on 2.5 and introduced post revisions and Press This. A usability study was done on 2.5 over the summer, leading to the development of the Crazyhorse prototype, and the eventual release of [[Version_2.7 | Version 2.7 (Coltrane)]], which redesigned the administration UI to improve usability and make the admin tool more customizable.  Version 2.7 also introduced automatic upgrading, built-in plugin installation, sticky posts, comment threading/paging/replies and a new API, bulk management, and inline documentation.

'''2009''' - [[Version_2.8 | Version 2.8 (Baker)]] introduced a built-in theme installer and an improved widget UI and API. [[Version_2.9 | Version 2.9 (Carmen)]] introduced image editing, a Trash/Undo feature, bulk plugin updating, and oEmbed support.

'''2010''' - [[Version_3.0 | Version 3.0 (Thelonious)]] was a major release, it introduced custom post types, made  custom taxonomies simpler, added custom menu management, added new API's for custom headers and custom backgrounds, introduced a new default theme called "Twenty Ten" and allowed the management of multiple sites (called MultiSite).

'''2011''' - [[Version_3.1 | Version 3.1 (Gershwin)]] introduced post format and the admin bar. [[Version_3.2 | Version 3.2 (Reinhardt)]] made WordPress faster and lighter, this version  upgraded minimum requirements to PHP 5.2.4 and MySQL 5.0.15, and introduced a new default theme called "Twenty Eleven". [[Version_3.3 | Version 3.3 (Sonny)]] made WordPress more friendly for beginners with welcome messages and feature pointers.

'''2012''' - [[Version_3.4 | Version 3.4 (Green)]] introduced the theme customizer and theme previewer. [[Version_3.5 | Version 3.5 (Elvin)]] introduced the new media manager and the new default theme called "Twenty Twelve".

'''2013''' - [[Version_3.6 | Version 3.6 (Peterson)]] introduced a new default theme called "Twenty Thirteen", builtin Audio and Video support, dynamic and scalable Revisions, improved Autosave and Post Locking. [[Version_3.7 | Version 3.7 (Basie)]] introduced automatic updates for maintenance and security updates, stronger password meter, improved search results and better global support for localized versions. [[Version_3.8 | Version 3.8 (Parker)]] introduced new admin design and new default theme called "Twenty Fourteen".

'''2014''' - [[Version_3.9 | Version 3.9 (Smith)]] improved the media experience and introduced live widget and header previews. [[Version_4.0 | Version 4.0 (Benny)]] introduced a grid view for the media library and for installing plugins, and visual previews for embedded content. [[Version_4.1 | Version 4.1 (Dinah)]] introduced a refreshed Distraction Free Writing mode, language installation from the Settings screen, and a beautiful new default theme, "Twenty Fifteen".

'''2015''' - [[Version_4.2 | Version 4.2 (Powell)]] added emoji support, add extended character support and switched database encoding from utf8 to utf8mb4. [[Version_4.3 | Version 4.3 (Billie)]] added builtin site icons support and introduced formatting shortcuts in the visual editor. [[Version_4.4 | Version 4.4 (Clifford)]] added responsive images, embeddable posts, and a new default theme, "Twenty Sixteen."

'''2016''' - [[Version_4.5 | Version 4.5 (Coleman)]] added inline links, added formatting shortcuts and responsive previews in Customizer.

'''2018''' - [[Version_5.0 | Version 5.0 (Bebo)]] introduced Gutenberg (the new block-based editor) to WordPress users, the first step toward an exciting new future with a streamlined editing experience across an entire site. This new editing experience provides a more consistent treatment of design as well as content.

[[Category:About WordPress]]
-->