{{Languages|
{{en|Include Tags}}
{{ja|インクルードタグ}}
{{pt-br|Tags include}}
{{mk|Ознаки за вклучување}}
}}

== Include Tags ==

The Template '''include tags''' are used within one [[Templates|Template]] file (for example <tt>index.php</tt>) to execute the [[Glossary#HTML|HTML]] and [[Glossary#PHP|PHP]] found in another template file (for example <tt>header.php</tt>).  [http://www.php.net PHP] has a built in [http://us3.php.net/manual/en/function.include.php include()] statement for this purpose, but these WordPress template tags make including certain specific files much easier.

See [[Using Themes]] and [[Theme Development]] for more information about Templates and Themes.

== Function Reference ==

{| cellspacing="10" width="100%"
|- valign="top"
| width="50%" |

{| class="widefat"
|- style="background:#464646; color:#d7d7d7;"
! '''Include Generic Files'''
|-
|
* <tt>[[Function Reference/get_header | get_header()]]</tt>
* <tt>[[Function Reference/get_footer | get_footer()]]</tt>
* <tt>[[Function Reference/get_sidebar | get_sidebar()]]</tt>
* <tt>[[Function Reference/get_template_part | get_template_part()]]</tt>
|}

| width="50%" |

{| class="widefat"
|- style="background:#464646; color:#d7d7d7;"
! '''Include Other Components'''
|-
|
* <tt>[[Function Reference/get_search_form | get_search_form()]]</tt>
* <tt>[[Function Reference/comments_template | comments_template()]]</tt>


|}

|}

== The Header Template ==

 <?php get_header(); ?>

The <tt>[[Function Reference/get_header | get_header()]]</tt> tag includes the file <tt>header.php</tt> or <tt>header-{name}.php</tt> from your current theme's directory.  If that file is not found, it will instead include {{Trac|wp-includes/theme-compat/header.php}}.

== The Footer Template ==

 <?php get_footer(); ?>

The <tt>[[Function Reference/get_footer | get_footer()]]</tt> tag includes the file <tt>footer.php</tt> or <tt>footer-{name}.php</tt> from your current theme's directory.  If that file is not found, it will instead include {{Trac|wp-includes/theme-compat/footer.php}}.

== The Sidebar Template ==

 <?php get_sidebar(); ?>

The <tt>[[Function Reference/get_sidebar | get_sidebar()]]</tt> tag includes the file <tt>sidebar.php</tt> or <tt>sidebar-{name}.php</tt> from your current theme's directory.  If that file is not found, it will instead include {{Trac|wp-includes/theme-compat/sidebar.php}}.

== Custom Template files ==

 <?php get_template_part(); ?>

The <tt>[[Function Reference/get_template_part | get_template_part()]]</tt> tag includes the file <tt>{slug}.php</tt> or <tt>{slug}-{name}.php</tt> from your current theme's directory, a custom Include Tags other than header, sidebar, footer.

== The Search Form Template ==

 <?php get_search_form(); ?>

The <tt>[[Function Reference/get_search_form | get_search_form()]]</tt> tag includes the file <tt>searchform.php</tt> from your current theme's directory. If that file is not found, it will generate the search form.

See also [[Function Reference/get_search_form|get_search_form]] and [[Migrating Plugins and Themes to 2.7#The Search Form Template Tag|Migrating Plugins and Themes to 2.7]] for more detail.

== The Comments Template ==

 <?php comments_template(); ?>

This tag includes the file <tt>comments.php</tt> from your current theme's directory.  If that file is not found, it will instead include {{Trac|wp-includes/theme-compat/comments.php}}.  To display comments on the main index or archive pages, you'll need to set the <tt>$withcomments</tt> variable to <tt>"1"</tt> before calling this tag.

== Example ==

The following is a ''very'' simple example of a template for an "HTTP 404: Not Found" error (which you could include in your [[Theme Development|Theme]] as <tt>404.php</tt>).

<pre>
<?php get_header(); ?>
<?php get_template_part('nav'); ?>
<h2>Error 404 - Not Found</h2>
<?php get_sidebar(); ?>
<?php get_footer(); ?>
</pre>

== Parameters ==
[[Include_Tags#The Header Template|<code>get_header()</code>]], [[Include_Tags#The Footer Template|<code>get_footer()</code>]] and [[Include_Tags#The Sidebar Template|<code>get_sidebar()</code>]] accepts one parameter:
{{Parameter|$name|string|Calls for sidebar-{name}.php. For Example: <tt>sidebar-right.php</tt>, <tt>header-single.php</tt> or <tt>footer-8.php</tt>.|optional}}

[[Include_Tags#Custom Template files|<code>get_template_part()</code>]] accepts two parameters:
{{Parameter|$slug|string|Calls for {slug}.php. For Example: <tt>nav.php</tt>}}
{{Parameter|$name|string|Calls for {slug}-{name}.php. For Example: <tt>nav-home.php</tt>|optional}}

== Changelog ==
* [[Version 1.5|1.5]] :
** [[Include_Tags#The Header Template|<code>get_header()</code>]] was added to include the template header.
** [[Include_Tags#The Footer Template|<code>get_footer()</code>]] was added to include the template footer.
** [[Include_Tags#The Sidebar Template|<code>get_sidebar()</code>]] was added to include the template sidebar.

* [[Version 2.5|2.5]] :
** The ''name'' parameter was added to [[Include_Tags#The Sidebar Template|<code>get_sidebar()</code>]].

* [[Version 2.7|2.7]] :
** The ''name'' parameter was added to [[Include_Tags#The Header Template|<code>get_header()</code>]].
** The ''name'' parameter was added to [[Include_Tags#The Footer Template|<code>get_footer()</code>]].
** [[Include_Tags#The Search From Template|<code>get_search_form()</code>]] was added to include the search form.

* [[Version 3.0|3.0]] :
** [[Include_Tags#Custom Template files|<code>get_template_part()</code>]] was added to include the template other generic files.

== Source File ==
* Browse source: {{Trac|wp-includes/general-template.php}}

== Related ==
{{Include Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Design and Layout]]