{{Languages|
{{en|Installing Multiple Blogs}}
{{ja|Installing Multiple Blogs}}
{{pt-br|Instalando Múltiplos Blogs}}
{{th|Installing Multiple Blogs}}
{{zh-tw|安裝多個部落格}}
}}
This page was moved to https://wordpress.org/support/article/installing-multiple-blogs/ except above language locator.

<!--
== Multisite feature ==

If you want multiple blogs using WordPress, use multisite feature to create what was referred to as a network of sites. This feature was implemented by merging WordPressMU into the core at [[Version 3.0]]. 

Multisite feature install single WordPress and database.

See [[Create A Network]].


== Multiple Blogs Through Multiple Installs ==

By some reason, if you need multiple WordPress instances, you must actually install each WordPress separately (that is, as a separate WordPress installation). System architecture can be divided into two types by number of databases.

# Multiple databases installation. Each database manages specific site's information.
# Single database installation. The database manages all site's information.


=== Multiple Databases ===

You'll need a separate [[Glossary#MySQL|MySQL database]] for each blog you plan to install. If you have not yet created these, [[Installing_WordPress#Step_2:_Create_the_Database_and_a_User|basic instructions are found here]]. 

The [[Editing_wp-config.php|wp-config.php]] file will vary for each installation. The lines to change are:

 define('DB_NAME', 'wordpress');     // The name of the database
 define('DB_USER', 'username');     // Your MySQL username
 define('DB_PASSWORD', 'password'); // ...and password

<code>DB_NAME</code> will be the name of the individual database created for that blog. If you are using different user logins for each database, edit <code>DB_USER</code> and <code>DB_PASSWORD</code> to reflect this, as well. 

Upload each wp-config.php file to its specific root/installation directory, and run the installation. See [[Installing WordPress]] for more information.

=== Single Database ===

As with the multiple databases solution described above, the [[Editing_wp-config.php|wp-config.php]] file will vary for each installation. In this case, however, only a single line will be unique to each blog:

 $table_prefix = 'wp_'; // example: 'wp_' or 'b2' or 'mylogin_' 

By default, WordPress assigns the table prefix <code>wp_</code> to its [[Glossary#MySQL|MySQL database]] tables, but this prefix can be anything you choose. By using more than one, you create unique identifiers for each blog in your database. For example, let's say you have three blogs to set up, with the names Main, Projects and Test. You want to substitute the prefix <code>wp_</code> for each blog's wp-config.php: 

Main blog:
 $table_prefix = 'main_'; 

Projects blog:
 $table_prefix = 'projects_'; 

Test blog:
 $table_prefix = 'test_'; 

As noted, you may use a prefix of your own making. Those provided here are for example purposes only.

Upload each wp-config.php file to its specific root/installation directory, and run the installation. See [[Installing WordPress]] for more information.

=== Multiple Databases, Same Users ===

You can use the same userbase with all your blogs on the same domain, by defining the <tt>CUSTOM_USER_TABLE</tt> and optionally the <tt>CUSTOM_USER_META_TABLE</tt> constants to point to the same <tt>wp_your_blog_users</tt> and <tt>wp_your_blog_usermeta</tt> tables.
See [[Editing_wp-config.php#Custom_User_and_Usermeta_Tables|Editing wp-config.php/Custom User and Usermeta Tables]].

=== Other Resources ===

* [http://climbtothestars.org/archives/2004/09/02/scripts-for-a-wordpress-weblog-farm Scripts for a WordPress Weblog Farm] and [http://climbtothestars.org/archives/2004/08/11/musings-on-a-multiblog-wordpress/ Musings on a Multiblog WordPress] are historical documents to review about creating and managing multiple blog through a single interface.

[[Category:Installation]]
[[Category:Getting Started]]
[[Category:Advanced Topics]]
-->