Announcement: New forum sites creation is currently on hold whilst we work on upgrading existing and using the new bbPress 2.x forums plugin. The information below is now out of date and will no longer be needed with our new setup. You will need to add translations for [https://translate.wordpress.org/projects/bbpress bbPress] 2.x though. Please contact the [https://make.wordpress.org/polyglots/ Polyglots team] for further updates. Updated 24th February 2015


Every [[L10n:Localization Teams | localization team]] can have a WordPress forum in their language, hosted on WordPress.org.

=== How to get local forums? ===
<strike> 
# Choose forums URL slug. Usually your locale does a good job. For example, the URL of the Bulgarian forums is http://bg.forums.wordpress.org/
# Choose forums title, something like Bulgarian Forums, but in your language.
# Choose the name and description for your first forum. 
# Translate the [http://wordpress.org/bb-theme/wporg/wporg.pot POT file] of the bbPress theme used in the forums and commit it to <tt><nowiki>http://i18n.svn.wordpress.org/your-locale/rosetta/wporg-bbpress-theme.po</nowiki></tt>
# Translate the [http://bbpress.org/plugins/topic/support-forum/ Support Forum] bbPress plugin's [http://plugins-svn.bbpress.org/support-forum/trunk/languages/support-forum.pot POT file] and commit it to <tt><nowiki>http://i18n.svn.wordpress.org/your-locale/rosetta/support-forum.po</nowiki></tt>
# Translate <tt>trunk</tt> of bbPress. Of course, there is a [http://bbpress-i18n.svn.wordpress.org/pot/trunk/bbpress.pot POT file] for it too. If you still don't have commit access for the bbPress i18n repository, post a request on the [http://make.wordpress.org/polyglots/ Polyglots' blog].
# Send the collected information to the [http://make.wordpress.org/polyglots/ Polyglots' blog].
 </strike>
[[Category:Translating WordPress]]
[[Category:Advanced Topics]]
[[Category:WordPress Help]]