{{Languages|
{{en|IRC}}
{{ja|IRC}}
}}
There is more than one way to [[Getting_More_Help|get help]] with WordPress.  Besides the [http://www.wordpress.org/support WordPress Forum], there is also a live chat help on the IRC network <tt>irc.freenode.net</tt>, where you can seek WordPress related help, or just hang out with fellow WordPress users. This page seeks to be a quick rundown of what IRC is, and how to log in to the [irc://irc.freenode.net/wordpress <tt>#wordpress</tt> channel]. For more answers to questions about how to use the <tt>#wordpress</tt> channel, see [[WordPress IRC Live Help]].

==Overview==
'''Internet Relay Chat''', or '''IRC''', is the precursor to both '''instant messaging''' and contemporary browser-based chatrooms like those found on [http://chat.yahoo.com/ Yahoo!], [http://chat.msn.com/ MSN], and innumerable other web sites. It is one of the best ways to get help fast, but it's also a swell way to hang out and become part of the WordPress community.

To participate, you need an [[#IRC_Client_Applications|IRC client]]. Once configured and installed, point it to '''irc.freenode.net''' and connect. You'll need to choose a nickname, and then "join" the '''<tt>#wordpress</tt>''' channel. An alternative to installing your own IRC client is to use the [http://webchat.freenode.net/ freenode web chat].

=== Making WordPress on Slack ===
The WordPress project has switched to using Slack as our main real-time communication platform, replacing the Development IRC channels and ad-hoc Skype chats. Most development channels which are now deprecated have links to their new home in Slack in their channel descriptions.

The WordPress Slack is not designed for support or general chatting, the existing IRC channels for these remain active and the best location for real-time communications.

For more information about getting started with Slack, visit https://make.wordpress.org/chat/.

== IRC Channel Rules ==

Please see the [[IRC/Channel_Guidelines|Channel Guidelines]] page.

== WordPress IRC Channels ==

=== #wordpress ===

General support channel for all WordPress related questions.  '''Plugin and theme development questions are welcome.'''  This is not the support channel for WordPress.com.

=== #wordpress-social ===

The place to unwind and just chat about the day. You will usually find a fair amount of the channels regular attendees in here getting better acquainted and making friends, the more the merrier as they say!

=== <del>#wordpress-dev</del> #core ===
This channel has been replaced by [https://wordpress.slack.com/messages/core/ #core] on Slack.

Channel for WordPress core developers to discuss the development of the WordPress core code; '''it is not designed for support with plugin or theme development.''' 

This channel is where the [https://make.wordpress.org/core/weekly-developer-chats/ weekly WordPress dev chats] are held Wednesday at 21:00 UTC. When meetings are taking place, please keep the channel on-topic by talking about agenda items only.

=== <del>#wordpress-core-plugins</del> #feature-{$plugin_name} ===

Channel for WordPress core plugins to discuss the development of their plugins.  This is not a general support channel for plugin or theme development.

Each feature plugin has its own Slack channel and meeting schedule. [https://wordpress.slack.com/messages/ Search for rooms] whose name starts with "feature-" for those actively in development.

=== #wordpress-gsoc ===

Channel for [[:Category:GSOC|WordPress Google Summer of Code]] (GSoC) discussions.

=== <del>#wordpress-mobile</del> #mobile ===

Channel for discussion about the WordPress mobile apps. [https://wordpress.slack.com/messages/mobile/ #mobile] on Slack.

=== <del>#wordpress-ui</del> #design ===

Channel for WordPress user interface and user experience discussions with weekly meetings on Thursday at 19:00 UTC in [https://wordpress.slack.com/messages/design/ #design] on Slack.

=== <del>#wordpress-polyglots</del> #polyglots ===

Channel for WordPress internationalization discussions. [https://wordpress.slack.com/messages/polyglots/ #polyglots] on Slack.

=== <del>#wordpress-themes</del> #themereview ===

[https://wordpress.slack.com/messages/themereview/ #themereview] is the Slack channel for the theme review process.
[https://wordpress.slack.com/messages/core-themes/ #core-themes] is the Slack channel for the development of themes that ship with WordPress.

=== <del>#wordpress-sfd</del> ===

Channel for the support team. This is not a channel for getting support, but one for how to provide support. The SFD teams each have their own Slack channels: [https://wordpress.slack.com/messages/forums/ #forums] and [https://wordpress.slack.com/messages/docs/ #docs]

=== #wordpress.com ===

Support channel for blogs and services hosted by WordPress.com.

=== <del>#wordpress-getinvolved</del> #outreach ===

There are various Slack channels dedicated to specific areas of making WordPress. If you're looking to contribute to WordPress in general, [https://wordpress.slack.com/messages/outreach/ #outreach] is a great place to get started.

=== <del>#wordpress-meta</del> #meta ===

Channel for people who want to contribute to the various WordPress.org community websites (WordPress.org, WordCamp.org, Make.WordPress.org, etc). [https://wordpress.slack.com/messages/meta/ #meta] on Slack.

== Sister IRC Channels ==

=== #backpress ===
Channel for BackPress support and development.

=== <del>#bbpress-dev</del> #bbpress ===
This is now [https://wordpress.slack.com/messages/bbpress/ #bbpress] on Slack.

Channel for bbPress core developers to discuss the development of the bbPress core code. This channel is not designed for support with plugin or theme development.  This channel is where the [https://bbpdevel.wordpress.com/ bbPress dev chats] are held.  (Bi-weekly meetings at Wednesday at 21:00 UTC.  When meetings are taking place, please keep the channel on-topic by talking about agenda items only.)

=== <del>#buddypress-dev</del> #buddypress ===

[https://wordpress.slack.com/messages/buddypress/ #buddypress] is the Slack channel for BuddyPress core development.

Channel for BuddyPress core developers to discuss the development of the BuddyPress core code. This channel is not designed for support with plugin or theme development.  This channel is where the [https://bpdevel.wordpress.com/ weekly BuddyPress dev chats] are held.  (Weekly meetings at Wednesday at 19:00 UTC.  When meetings are taking place, please keep the channel on-topic by talking about agenda items only.)

== Bots ==

=== doc-bot ===

doc-bot is an IRC bot designed for the WordPress related IRC [[IRC#WordPress_IRC_Channels|channels]] on [http://freenode.net/ freenode].  Details of usage are available at [[IRC/wp-doc-bot|wp-doc-bot]].

=== trac-bot ===

trac-bot is an IRC bot designed for the WordPress related development IRC channels on freenode. Amongst other things, trac-bot displays links to trac when presented with a #ticketnumber.

=== hlin ===

hlin is the WordPress IRC bot that provides protection against spammers and flooders.

==Logs==
Logs of the various chat channels are available at the [https://irclogs.wordpress.org/ WordPress.org IRC Logs site]. 

==IRC Client Applications==
* [http://www.adiirc.com/ AdiIRC] (Windows)
* [https://adium.im/help/pgs/ServiceInformation-IRCSupport.html Adium] (Mac OS X) 
* [http://chatzilla.hacksrus.com/ ChatZilla] (Mozilla Firefox browser add-on)
* [https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/circ/bebigdkelppomhhjaaianniiifjbgocn CIRC] (Google Chrome packaged app)
* [http://colloquy.info/ Colloquy] (Mac OS X)
* [http://webchat.freenode.net/ freenode webchat] (Ajax Compatible Browser)
* [http://www.icechat.net/ IceChat] (Windows)
* [http://irssi.org/ Irssi] (Multiple platforms)
* [http://konversation.kde.org/ Konversation] (KDE in Linux)
* [http://kopete.kde.org/ Kopete] (KDE in Linux)
* [http://limechat.net/mac/ LimeChat] (Mac OS X)
* [http://www.mirc.com/ mIRC] (Windows)
* [http://pidgin.im/ Pidgin] (Multiple platforms)
* [https://www.smuxi.org/ Smuxi IRC Client] (Linux/Windows/Mac OS X)
* [https://www.codeux.com/textual/ Textual] (Mac OS X)
* [http://weechat.org/ WeeChat] (Unix/Linux/BSD)
* [http://www.xchat.org/ XChat] (Unix/Linux/Windows)

==IRC Resources==

* [[WordPress IRC Live Help]]
* [http://freenode.net freenode]
* [http://www.irchelp.org/irchelp/ircprimer.html IRCHelp.org - A Short IRC Primer]
* [http://www.irchelp.org/irchelp/irctutorial.html IRCHelp.org - An IRC Turorial]
* [http://evolt.org/evolt_irc_primer/ Evolt.Org IRC Primer]
* [http://www.mirc.com/ircintro.html mirc - IRC FAQ]
* [http://www.free2code.net/tutorials/irc/22/basic_irc.php free2code - Basic IRC Tutorial]


[[Category:WordPress Help]]
[[Category:Meetings]]
[[Category:UI Link]]