{{Languages|
{{en|The Loop in Action}}
{{es|The Loop in Action}}
{{fr|La Boucle En Action}}
{{ja|The Loop in Action}}
{{zh-cn|运行中的循环}}
{{uk|The Loop in Action}}
{{ru|Цикл в действии}}
{{bn|দি লুপের ক্রিয়া}}
{{it|Il Loop in Azione}}
}}

==Introduzione==
[[The Loop|"The Loop"]] è l'elemento principale di WordPress. Useremo il Loop nel nostro [[Templates|template files]] per visualizzare i Posts ai visitatori. Potremmo creare Templates senza il Loop, ma protremmo visualizzare solo i dati del Post.

Prima che il Loop entri in azione, WordPress verifica che tutti i Files di cui esso ha bisogno siano presenti.  Allora come definito dal [[Registered_User_Features|blog administrator]], raccoglie le impostazioni predefinite dal Database.  Questo include il numero dei posts, da visualizzare per pagina, l'abilitazione o meno dei commenti, e molto altro. Una volta terminate queste operazioni di default, WordPress controlla per vedere cosa l'utente ha richiesto. Questa informazione viene utilizzata per determinare quali post recuperare dal database.
Se l'utente non chiede uno specifico Post, Category, Page, o Date, WordPress usa i valori predefiniti precedentemente raccolti, per determinare quali Posts recuperare per l'utente.  Per esempio, se il blog administrator è impostato per visualizzare 5 Posts per pagina in [[Administration_Panels|Administration]] > [[Administration_Panels#Reading|Settings]] > [[Settings_Reading_SubPanel|Reading]], allora WordPress prenderà dal Database i 5 Posts più recenti.  Se l'utente richiede uno specifico Post, Category, Page, o Date, allora WordPress userà quella informazione specifica quale ''post''(s) da prendere dal database.

Dopo che tutte queste operazioni sono svolte, WordPress si connette al Database, recupera le informazioni richieste, è memorizza il risultato in una variabile. Il Loop usa i valori di questa variabile per visualizzare il nostro Templates.

Di default, se il visitatore non seleziona uno specifico Post, Page, Category, o Date, WordPress usa <tt>index.php</tt> per visualizzare ogni cosa.  Per la prima parte di questa discussione sul Loop ci focalizzeremo soltando su <tt>index.php</tt>, e la visualizzazione standard del blog.  Successivamente, una volta compreso come lavora il Loop, esamineremo come funziona in altri template files.

==La più semplice pagina Index==
Il seguente è un semplice Index file (index.php), che visualizza il contenuto (e solo il contenuto) di ogni Post, in base alle condizioni usate per preparare il Loop. Questo esempio mostra quanto piccolo è il codice necessario per il Loop.

<pre>
&lt;?php
get_header();
if (have_posts()) :
   while (have_posts()) :
      the_post();
         the_content();
   endwhile;
endif;
get_sidebar();
get_footer(); 
?&gt;
</pre>

==The Default Loop==
The following is a step-by-step look at the default usage of the Loop that comes with the ''default'' and ''classic'' theme in the standard installation of WordPress v1.5.

===All'inizio del Loop===
All'inizio del Template File <tt>index.php</tt>, di default, si trova il codice di avvio per [[The Loop]]. 
<pre>&lt;?php if (have_posts()) : ?&gt;
<?php while (have_posts()) : the_post(); ?></pre>

#La prima riga di codice, controlla se sono presenti Posts con la funzione <tt>have_posts()</tt>.
#Se è presente qualche Posts, la seconda riga di codice avvia un ciclo PHP <tt>[http://www.php.net/while while]</tt>.  Il ciclo <tt>while</tt> continuerà (repeating) ad essere eseguito finchè la condizione tra parentesi <tt>have_posts()</tt> rimarrà logicamente vera.

La funzione <tt>have_posts()</tt> controlla semplicemente l'elemento successivo dei Posts recuperati. Internamente, tutto questo si basa su un contatore di Posts, che viene confrontato con il numero torale di Posts recuperati. La funzione <tt>the_post()</tt> quindi recupera il post successivo e aggiorna il contatore dei post interni. Alla prossima valutazione di <tt>have_posts()</tt> nel <tt>while</tt> clause, if another item is present, the <tt>while</tt> loop body is executed again for the next post. When the posts collection is exhausted (the posts counter matches the total number of posts), the <tt>while</tt> loop ends and The Loop moves on to whatever instructions it has beyond the <tt>while</tt> statement, still within the <tt>if</tt> test. For example, the <tt>if</tt> might have an <tt>else</tt> clause with statements to be executed if the posts collection did not contain any data in the first place.

===Generating the Post===
La funzione <tt>the_post()</tt> takes the current item in the collection of posts and makes it available for use inside this iteration of The Loop.  Without <tt>the_post()</tt>, many of the [[Template Tags]] used in your theme would not work.

Una volta che i dati del Post sono disponibili, il Template lo converte in HTML e lo spedisce al visitatore. 

====Title, Date and Author====
The following [[Template Tags|template tags]] get the current post's title, the time it was posted, and who posted it.
<pre>
&lt;h2 id="post-&lt;?php the_ID(); ?&gt;"&gt;
&lt;a href="&lt;?php the_permalink() ?>" rel="bookmark" title="Permanent Link to &lt;?php the_title_attribute(); ?&gt;"&gt;
&lt;?php the_title(); ?&gt;&lt;/a&gt;&lt;/h2&gt;
&lt;small&gt;&lt;?php the_time('F jS, Y') ?&gt; &lt;!-- by &lt;?php the_author() ?&gt; --&gt;&lt;/small&gt;
</pre>

====Post Content====
The <tt>[[Template_Tags/the_content|the_content()]]</tt> template tag fetches the content of the post, [[Plugin_API/Filter_Reference|filters]] it, and then displays it. This is the meat and potatoes of each pass through The Loop:
<pre>
&lt;div class="entry"&gt;
&lt;?php the_content('Read the rest of this entry &amp;raquo;'); ?&gt;
&lt;/div&gt;
</pre>

As the <tt>the_content()</tt> documentation states, the <tt>&lt;!--more--></tt> [[Write Post SubPanel#Quicktags|quicktag]] is used to specify an excerpt for <tt>the_content()</tt> to display on multi-post pages. The string passed to <tt>the_content()</tt> is used for the "Read More" link after the excerpt. For more about excerpts, the <tt>&lt;!--more--></tt> quicktag, and the "Read More" link see [[Template Tags/the_content]] and ''[[Customizing the Read More]]''.

====Additional Details====
The [[Post_Meta_Data_Section|post meta data section]] is located beneath each post's content in the <tt>index.php</tt> template file, and is used to display more information about the post, such as the categories, date, and comment information. By placing the <tt>[[Template_Tags/edit_post_link|edit_post_link()]]</tt> template tag function, logged in users of sufficient privilege (or the post's author) will also see an "Edit This" link.
<pre>
&lt;p class="postmetadata"&gt;
Posted in &lt;?php the_category(', ') ?&gt; 
&lt;strong&gt;|&lt;/strong&gt;
&lt;?php edit_post_link('Edit','','<strong>|</strong>'); ?&gt;  
&lt;?php comments_popup_link('No Comments &#187;', '1 Comment &#187;', '% Comments &#187;'); ?&gt;&lt;/p&gt;
</pre>

If commenting is enabled, or if the post has comments, the <tt>[[Template_Tags/comments_popup_link|comments_popup_link()]]</tt> template tag will display a link to the comments.  If you're using the [[Template_Tags/comments_popup_script|comments popup window]], this link will open the comments window; otherwise it will jump right to this post's comments.

If the visitor is viewing an index of posts (''i.e.:'' more than one post in The Loop), the <tt>comments_popup_link()</tt> link will take the reader to this post's individual page.

====Trackback Auto-Discovery====
The <tt>[[Template_Tags/trackback_rdf|trackback_rdf]]</tt> template tag's function is to output machine-readable code used for [[Glossary#Trackback|trackback]] auto-discovery.

<pre>
&lt;!--
&lt;?php trackback_rdf(); ?&gt;
--&gt;
</pre>

'''Note:''' The <tt>trackback_rdf()</tt> tag is ''intentionally'' used within [[Commenting_Code|an HTML comment]]; it is not being "turned off". The reason for this is that, otherwise, RDF breaks validation in non-XML documents, and in XHTML documents it is parsed incorrectly by most browsers.

===Ending The Loop===
The following ends The Loop.  After this, the various post-related template tags will not work as expected (or if they do, they will use the last post from The Loop). This means, that if you need to use a template tag that works '''within The Loop''', you need to put it in before this point.
<pre>
&lt;?php endwhile; ?&gt;
</pre>

This section, immediately after the end of The Loop, displays navigation controls to move forward and backward by each web page. More information is available in function reference for [[Function_Reference/posts_nav_link|posts_nav_link()]].
<pre>
 &lt;div class="navigation">
 &lt;div class="alignleft"><?php previous_posts_link('&amp;laquo; Previous Entries') ?></div>
 &lt;div class="alignright"><?php next_posts_link('Next Entries &amp;raquo;',<nowiki>''</nowiki>) ?></div>
 &lt;/div>
</pre>

If the blog is set to display 10 posts per page, and the conditions used by The Loop collect 25 posts, there will be three pages to navigate: two pages of 10 posts each, and one page of 5 posts.  The navigation links will allow the visitor to move forward and backward through the collection of posts.

The navigation controls are included <em>outside</em> The Loop, but <em>inside</em> the <tt>if</tt> condition, so that they only show up if there are any posts.  The navigation functions themselves also check whether or not there is anything to which they will link, based on the current Loop, and only display links if there's something to link.

<pre>
&lt;?php else : ?&gt;
 &lt;h2 class="center"&gt;Not Found&lt;/h2&gt;
 &lt;p class="center"&gt;
&lt;?php _e("Sorry, but you are looking for something that isn't here."); ?&gt;&lt;/p&gt;
</pre>
The <tt>else :</tt> clause determines what to do if <tt>have_posts()</tt> (from way up at the top) is false.  That is to say, the stuff after the '''else''' will only be executed/displayed if The Loop had zero posts. No posts show up if, for example, the visitor requested a specific day for which no posts were made or a search was performed that produced no results.

<pre>
  &lt;?php endif; ?&gt;
</pre>
This ends the conditional test of "if there are posts do this, else if there are no posts, do that".  Once the conditional test is finished, the default index.php template next includes the sidebar, and finally the footer.

==The Loop In Other Templates==
WordPress can use different template files for displaying your blog in different ways.  In the default WordPress theme, there are [[Templates|template files]] for the index view, category view, and archive view, as well as a template for viewing individual posts.  Each of these uses [[The Loop]], but does so with slightly different formatting, as well as different uses of the [[Template_Tags|template tags]].

For any view which does not have a separate template file, WordPress will use <tt>index.php</tt> by default.  If a visitor requests a single post, WordPress will first look for a file named <tt>single.php</tt>.  If that file exists, it will be used to present the post to the visitor.  If that file does not exist, WordPress will use <tt>index.php</tt> to present the post to the visitor. This is called the [[Template Hierarchy]].

If you are making your own [[Using Themes|Theme]], it's often helpful to look at the [[Templates|template files]] from the default Theme as a point of reference.  It's also helpful to use your theme's <tt>index.php</tt> as a template for your other template files.  Doing so may give you a known and working page from which to begin making changes as you create more template files.

===Different Archive Format===
An <em>archive</em> is a collection of historical posts.  In the default usage, the posts displayed on your main index are recent [http://mydatapages.com/chronological.html chronological] postings.  When a visitor clicks on one of your archive links, or if they manually request a specific date (<nowiki>http://www.example.com/blog/index.php?m=200504</nowiki> or <nowiki>http://www.example.com/blog/2005/04</nowiki> to select all posts from April, 2005), WordPress will display an <em>archive</em> view.  By default, the archive will use <tt>index.php</tt>, and thus look the same as your front page, just displaying the posts from April 2005.

When WordPress prepares an [[Creating_an_Archive_Index|archive view]] for a visitor, it specifically looks for a file named <tt>archive.php</tt> in your current theme's directory.  If you'd like to visually disambiguate archives from your front page, simply copy <tt>index.php</tt> to <tt>archive.php</tt>, and edit <tt>archive.php</tt> as necessary!

For example, if you want to show only post titles, and no post content, for your list of archives, you could use something like this:
<pre>
&lt;?php get_header(); ?&gt;
 &lt;div id="content" class="narrowcolumn"&gt;

  &lt;?php if (have_posts()) : ?&gt;
   &lt;?php while (have_posts()) : the_post(); ?&gt;
     &lt;div class="post"&gt;
     &lt;h2 id="post-&lt;?php the_ID(); ?&gt;"&gt;
&lt;a href="&lt;?php the_permalink() ?&gt;" rel="bookmark" title="Permanent Link to &lt;?php the_title_attribute(); ?&gt;"&gt;&lt;?php the_title(); ?&gt;&lt;/a&gt;&lt;/h2&gt;
     &lt;small&gt;&lt;?php the_time('F jS, Y') ?&gt; &lt;!-- by &lt;?php the_author() ?&gt; --&gt;&lt;/small&gt;
      &lt;/div&gt;
    &lt;?php endwhile; ?&gt;
&lt;div class="navigation"&gt;
&lt;div class="alignleft"&gt;
&lt;?php posts_nav_link('','','&amp;laquo; Previous Entries') ?&gt;
&lt;/div&gt;
&lt;div class="alignright"&gt;
&lt;?php posts_nav_link('','Next Entries &amp;raquo;','') ?&gt;
&lt;/div&gt;
  &lt;/div&gt;
&lt;?php else : ?&gt;
  &lt;h2 class="center"&gt;Not Found&lt;/h2&gt;
 &lt;p class="center"&gt;&lt;?php _e("Sorry, but you are looking for something that isn't here."); ?&gt;&lt;/p&gt;
  &lt;?php endif; ?&gt;
&lt;/div&gt;
&lt;?php get_sidebar(); ?&gt;
&lt;?php get_footer(); ?&gt;
</pre>

===Different Category Format===
Like the archive views, WordPress looks for a separate template file for [[Category_Templates|category views]].  If a visitor clicks on a link for a category in your blog, they will be taken to the category view.  WordPress will prepare The Loop with posts from that category only, limiting the number of posts per the blog's default settings.

To make your category view different from your index view, copy <tt>index.php</tt> and rename it <tt>category.php</tt>.  For a category view, it's probably not necessary to list the categories to which a post is assigned, so let's remove that portion.  Instead, let's announce the category at the top of the page:
<pre>
&lt;?php get_header(); ?&gt;
 &lt;div id="content" class="narrowcolumn"&gt;
 &lt;p&gt;
 &lt;strong&gt;
  &lt;?php single_cat_title('Currently browsing '); ?&gt;
  &lt;/strong&gt;&lt;br /&gt;
 &lt;?php echo category_description(); ?&gt;
 &lt;/p&gt;
 &lt;?php if (have_posts()) : ?&gt;
   &lt;?php while (have_posts()) : the_post(); ?&gt;
     &lt;div class="post"&gt;
      &lt;h2 id="post-&lt;?php the_ID(); ?&gt;"&gt;
&lt;a href="&lt;?php the_permalink() ?&gt;" rel="bookmark" title="Permanent Link to &lt;?php the_title_attribute(); ?&gt;"&gt;
&lt;?php the_title(); ?&gt;&lt;/a&gt;&lt;/h2&gt;
   &lt;small&gt;
     &lt;?php the_time('F jS, Y') ?&gt; 
        &lt;!-- by &lt;?php the_author() ?&gt; --&gt;
   &lt;/small&gt;
 &lt;/div&gt;
&lt;?php endwhile; ?&gt;
 &lt;div class="navigation"&gt;
   &lt;div class="alignleft"&gt;
    &lt;?php posts_nav_link('','','&amp;laquo; Previous Entries') ?&gt;
   &lt;/div&gt;
   &lt;div class="alignright"&gt;
    &lt;?php posts_nav_link('','Next Entries &amp;raquo;','') ?&gt;
   &lt;/div&gt;
 &lt;/div&gt;
&lt;?php else : ?&gt;
  &lt;h2 class="center"&gt;Not Found&lt;/h2&gt;
&lt;p class="center"&gt;&lt;?php _e("Sorry, but you are looking for something that isn't here."); ?&gt;&lt;/p&gt;
 &lt;?php endif; ?&gt;
&lt;/div&gt;
&lt;?php get_sidebar(); ?&gt;
&lt;?php get_footer(); ?&gt;
</pre>

===Different Formats for Different Categories===
As explained in the [[Template Hierarchy]], it is possible to [[Category_Templates|create separate template files for each category]].  Simply name the file <tt>category-<b><u>X</u></b>.php</tt>, where <b><u>X</u></b> is the numerical ID of the category.  Consider carefully whether you need a whole new template for a specific category.

Let's look at two categories, "Plants" and "Flowers", with category IDs 3 and 4, respectively.  Next to each post title in the output you want to have picture of either a plant, or a flower, depending on which category is being displayed.  You could:
* Use two separate files, <tt>category-3.php</tt> and <tt>category-4.php</tt>, each with a different <tt>img</tt> tag for each post title.
* Use a conditional test inside your default <tt>category.php</tt> file to check whether the current category is "Plants" or "Flowers" (or neither), and display the appropriate image:
<pre>
&lt;?php if (is_category('3') ):
 // we're in the Plants category, so show a plant ?&gt;
 &lt;img src='/images/plant.png' alt='a plant' /&gt;
&lt;?php } elseif (is_category('4') ):
 // we're in the Flowers category, so show a flower ?&gt;
 &lt;img src='/images/flower.png' alt='a pretty flower' /&gt;
&lt;?php endif; // end the if, no images for other other categories ?&gt;
</pre>

If you added another category, "Cars", which you wanted to display in a <em>significantly</em> different way, then a separate <tt>category-<b><u>X</u></b>.php</tt> would be more appropriate.

=== Different CSS For Different Categories ===

Many users want to create separate CSS files for a specific category.  This, too, can be easily accomplished.  It is important to remember that stylesheets are defined and loaded in the <tt>&lt;head&gt;</tt> section of the HTML document.  WordPress uses the <tt>header.php</tt> file for this.  In the default <tt>header.php</tt>, find this line:
<pre>
&lt;link rel="stylesheet" href="&lt;?php bloginfo('stylesheet_url'); ?&gt;" type="text/css" media="screen" /&gt;
</pre>
And change it to something like this:
<pre>
&lt;?php if ( is_category('5') ) { // Load special CSS for "Cars" category ?&gt;
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="<?php bloginfo('template_url'); ?>/category-5.css" type="text/css" media="screen" />;
&lt;?php } else { ?&gt;
   <link rel="stylesheet" href="<?php bloginfo('stylesheet_url'); ?>" type="text/css" media="screen" />
&lt;?php } ?&gt;
</pre>
<strong>Note:</strong> The Cars template uses the <tt>category-5.css</tt> file to override the default layout.  In this example the CSS file is named after the category template file to which it will be applied, rather than the actual name of the category.  Thus, you know that <tt>category-5.css</tt> goes with <tt>category-5.php</tt>.

===Different Single Post Format===
When viewing any single post (or [[Glossary#Permalink|permalink]]), WordPress will use <tt>single.php</tt>, if present.

This portion, from the WordPress default single.php, provides the [[Post_Meta_Data_Section|post meta data information]] about the current post:
<pre>
<p class="postmetadata alt">
<small>
This entry was posted on &lt;?php the_time('l, F jS, Y') ?&gt; at &lt;?php the_time() ?&gt; 
and is filed under &lt;?php the_category(', ') ?&gt;.
You can follow any responses to this entry through 
the &lt;?php comments_rss_link('RSS 2.0'); ?&gt; feed.
&lt;?php
if ( comments_open() && pings_open() ) {
// Both Comments and Pings are open
?&gt;
  You can &lt;a href="#respond"&gt;leave a response&lt;/a&gt;, or 
  &lt;a href="&lt;?php trackback_url(display); ?&gt;"&gt;trackback&lt;/a&gt; 
from your own site.
&lt;?php 
} elseif ( !comments_open() && pings_open() ) {
// Only Pings are Open 
?&gt;
  Responses are currently closed, but you can 
  &lt;a href="&lt;?php trackback_url(display); ?&gt; "&gt;trackback&lt;/a&gt; 
from your own site.
&lt;?php
} elseif ( comments_open() && !pings_open() ) { 
// Comments are open, Pings are not 
?&gt;
  You can skip to the end and leave a response. Pinging is currently not allowed.
&lt;?php
} else { 
// Neither Comments, nor Pings are open 
?&gt;
  Both comments and pings are currently closed.
&lt;?php 
} 
edit_post_link('Edit this entry.','',''); ?&gt;
&lt;/small&gt;
&lt;/p&gt;
</pre>
This sort of information -- whether comments are open or closed -- is largely inappropriate on an index, archive, or category view; which is why it's only included in the <tt>single.php</tt> template file.

==Other Loop Tricks==
Now that you have a good introduction to the basic uses for the WordPress Loop, let's introduce you to some more Loop effects and tricks.

===Static Front Page===

How can you display something special <em>only</em> on the front page of your blog? That's right, only on the front page or home page, and have it not be seen anywhere else on your site. Easy! We call this the ''static front page''.  The front or first page of your site isn't really static.  It's just using the Loop to make it look that way.

To make this Loop trick work, use the <tt>[[Function_Reference/is_home|is_home()]]</tt> conditional template tag function.

In your <tt>index.php</tt>, use an <tt>if ()</tt> test to [[Conditional Tags|conditionally]] output additional content:

<pre>
&lt;?php get_header(); ?&gt;
&lt;?php if (is_home()) {
 // we're on the home page, so let's show a picture of our new kitten!
 echo "&lt;img src='/images/new_kitty.jpg' alt='Our new cat, Rufus!' /&gt;";
 // and now back to our regularly scheduled home page
} ?&gt; 
</pre>

The function <tt>[[Function_Reference/is_home|is_home()]]</tt> will only produce a true value if the visitor is not requesting a specific post, page, category, or date, so it only shows up on the "home" page.

For more information, see [[Creating a Static Front Page]].

===Excerpts Only===
The easiest way to display excerpts, instead of the full content of posts, is to replace all instances of <tt>[[Template_Tags/the_content|the_content]]()</tt> with <tt>[[Template_Tags/the_excerpt|the_excerpt()]]</tt>.  If you have not created explicit excerpts for your posts, this function will automatically display the first 55 words of the post.
<pre>
&lt;div class="entry"&gt;
&lt;?php the_excerpt(); ?&gt;
&lt;/div&gt;
</pre>

===Showing Excerpts or Full Post Depending Upon Number of Posts===
In some circumstances, for example on archive pages, you may want to show the full post if there is only one post or excerpts if there are multiple posts. You can customize the loop to do this.

<pre>
<?php if (have_posts()) : ?>

  <?php if (($wp_query->post_count) > 1) : ?>
     <?php while (have_posts()) : the_post(); ?>
       <!-- Do your post header stuff here for excerpts-->
          <?php the_excerpt() ?>
       <!-- Do your post footer stuff here for excerpts-->
     <?php endwhile; ?>

  <?php else : ?>

     <?php while (have_posts()) : the_post(); ?>
       <!-- Do your post header stuff here for single post-->
          <?php the_content() ?>
       <!-- Do your post footer stuff here for single post-->
     <?php endwhile; ?>

  <?php endif; ?>

<?php else : ?>
     <!-- Stuff to do if there are no posts-->

<?php endif; ?>

</pre>

===Different Headers/Sidebars/Footers===
WordPress offers the <tt>[[Function Reference/get_header|get_header()]]</tt>, <tt>[[Function Reference/get_sidebar|get_sidebar()]]</tt>, and <tt>[[Function Reference/get_footer|get_footer()]]</tt> [[Include Tags]] for use in your [[Templates|template files]]. These functions make it easy to define a standard header/sidebar/footer which is easily editable. Any changes made to these files will immediately be made visible to viewers, without any work on your part.

But sometimes you might not <em>want</em> a sidebar. If you don't want a sidebar, simply exclude the call to the <tt>[[Function Reference/get_sidebar|get_sidebar()]]</tt> function from your template. For example, the <tt>single.php</tt> template in the WordPress default theme does not include a sidebar.

To create your own <strong>different</strong> sidebar, you have two choices:
# Include the sidebar contents directly into the template file on which you're working.  If you want category-3 to have a different sidebar, edit <tt>category-3.php</tt> and include the necessary HTML and PHP to generate your distinctive sidebar.
# Use the PHP <tt>[http://www.php.net/include include]</tt> function, to include another file. The WordPress <tt>[[Function Reference/get_sidebar|get_sidebar()]]</tt> function <em>only</em> loads <tt>sidebar.php</tt>.  If you make a file named <tt>sideleft.php</tt>, you would include it like this:
<pre>
&lt;?php include(TEMPLATEPATH . '/sideleft.php'); ?&gt;
</pre>

In WordPress [[Version 2.5]] and above you can also call a sidebar like this:
<pre>
&lt;?php get_sidebar('right'); ?&gt;
</pre>

This causes the template TEMPLATEPATH . 'sidebar-right.php' to be included.

Using the WordPress default [[Template Hierarchy]], if you want to use the same elements on multiple or different templates, it's probably best to put them in separate template files and use the PHP <tt>[http://us3.php.net/manual/en/function.include.php include()]</tt> function. If the element you're adding is specifically for one template file, it's probably best to include it directly in that template file.

==Summary==
We've just scratched the surface of what can be done with the Loop.  As a reminder, the following are resources that will help you customize your own [[The Loop|WordPress Loop]].

* [[Templates|Template Files]]
* [[Template Tags]]
* [[Template Hierarchy]]
* [[Conditional Tags]]

[[Category:WordPress Lessons]]
[[Category:Design and Layout]]
[[Category:Advanced Topics]]