{{Languages|
{{en|Class Reference}}
{{it|Riferimento_classi}}
{{ja|Class Reference}}
}}
__TOC__
Questa pagine definisce un elenco di classi PHP di WordPress. In questo articolo si cercherà di elencare tutte o quasi tutte le classi disponibili.

==Classi==

Le seguenti classi sono state create dagli sviluppatori di WordPress:
* _WP_Dependency - Una [[Class Reference/WP_Dependencies|WP_Dependencies]] class per accodare elemnti.
* AtomServer - implementazione in WordPress delle API AtomPub.
* Custom_Background
* Custom_Image_Header
* File_Upload_Upgrader - Aggiornamento dello Skin helper per il caricamento di file.
* NOOP_Translations
* smtp
* text_diff
* text_diff_engine_native
* text_diff_engine_shell
* text_diff_engine_string
* text_diff_engine_xdiff
* text_diff_op
* text_diff_op_add
* text_diff_op_change
* text_diff_op_copy
* text_diff_op_delete
* text_diff_renderer
* text_diff_renderer_inline
* text_mappeddiff
* translation_entry
* [[Class_Reference/Walker|Walker]]
** [[Class_Reference/Walker_Category|Walker_Category]]
** [[Class_Reference/Walker_Category_Checklist|Walker_Category_Checklist]]
** [[Class_Reference/Walker_CategoryDropdown|Walker_CategoryDropdown]]
** [[Class_Reference/Walker_Comment|Walker_Comment]]
** [[Class_Reference/Walker_Nav_Menu|Walker_Nav_Menu]]
** [[Class_Reference/Walker_Nav_Menu_Checklist|Walker_Nav_Menu_Checklist]]
** [[Class_Reference/Walker_Nav_Menu_Edit|Walker_Nav_Menu_Edit]]
** [[Class_Reference/Walker_Page|Walker_Page]]
** [[Class_Reference/Walker_PageDropDown|Walker_PageDropDown]]
* [[Class Reference/WP | WP]] - General request handling.
* [[Class Reference/WP_Admin_Bar | WP_Admin_Bar]] - Controls display and creation of Admin bar.
* [[Class Reference/WP Ajax Response | WP_Ajax_Response]] - Handles XML responses to AJAX requests.
* [[Class_Reference/WP_Customize_Manager|WP_Customize_Manager]] - (Instanced) Handles customization of the [[Theme_Customization_API|Theme Customizer]]
* [[Class Reference/WP_Dependencies|WP_Dependencies]] - Output a queue of items as HTML elements, some of which may depend on other items (requiring them to be processed first). Base class for WP_Styles and WP_Scripts.
* [[Class Reference/WP_Embed | WP_Embed]]
* [[Class Reference/WP Error | WP_Error]] - Error handling.
* WP_Feed_Cache
* WP_Feed_Cache_Transient
* [[Class_Reference/WP_Filesystem_Base|WP_Filesystem_Base]]
** WP_Filesystem_Direct
** WP_Filesystem_Ftpext
** WP_Filesystem_ftpsockets
** WP_Filesystem_SSH2
* WP_http
* WP_http_cookie
* WP_http_curl
* WP_http_encoding
* WP_http_exthttp
* WP_http_fopen
* WP_http_fsockopen
* WP_http_proxy
* WP_http_streams
* WP_importer
* [[Class Reference/WP_Locale | WP_Locale]] - Handles date and time locales.
* [[Class Reference/WP_matchesmapregex | WP_matchesmapregex]]
* [[Class Reference/WP_nav_menu_widget | WP_nav_menu_widget]]
* [[Class Reference/WP_Object_Cache | WP_Object_Cache ]] - Cache and regenerate data.
* [[Class Reference/WP_Oembed | WP_Oembed]]
* [[Class Reference/WP Query | WP_Query ]] - Request parsing and manipulation, posts fetching.
* [[Class Reference/WP Rewrite | WP_Rewrite ]] - Rewrite rules.
* [[Class Reference/WP_Role | WP_Role]]
* [[Class Reference/WP_Roles | WP_Roles]]
* [[Class Reference/WP_Theme| WP_Theme]]
* [[Class Reference/WP_Screen | WP_Screen]] - Controls admin screens
* [[Class Reference/WP_Scripts | WP_Scripts]] - JavaScript loading.
* [[Class Reference/WP_Simplepie_File | WP_Simplepie_File]]
* [[Class Reference/WP_Styles | WP_Styles]] - CSS stylesheet loading.
* [[Class Reference/WP_Text_diff_renderer_inline | WP_Text_diff_renderer_inline]]
* [[Class Reference/WP_Text_diff_renderer_table | WP_Text_diff_renderer_table]]
* [[Class Reference/WP_Upgrader | WP_Upgrader]]
** [[Class Reference/Core_Upgrader | Core_Upgrader]]
** [[Class Reference/Plugin_Upgrader | Plugin_Upgrader]]
** [[Class Reference/Theme_Upgrader | Theme_Upgrader]]
* WP_Upgrader_Skin
** Bulk_Upgrader_Skin
*** Bulk_Plugin_Upgrader_Skin
*** Bulk_Theme_Upgrader_Skin
** Plugin_Installer_Skin
** Plugin_Upgrader_Skin
** Theme_Installer_Skin
** Theme_Upgrader_Skin
* [[Class Reference/WP_User | WP_User]]
* [[Class Reference/WP User Query | WP_User_Query]] - Queries for users in the database.
* [[Class Reference/WP_Widget | WP_Widget]]
** [[Class Reference/WP_Widget_Archives | WP_Widget_Archives]]
** [[Class Reference/WP_Widget_Calendar | WP_Widget_Calendar]]
** [[Class Reference/WP_Widget_Categories | WP_Widget_Categories]]
** [[Class Reference/WP_Widget_Links | WP_Widget_Links]]
** [[Class Reference/WP_Widget_Meta | WP_Widget_Meta]]
** [[Class Reference/WP_Widget_Pages | WP_Widget_Pages]]
** [[Class Reference/WP_Widget_Recent_comments | WP_Widget_Recent_comments]]
** [[Class Reference/WP_Widget_Recent_posts | WP_Widget_Recent_posts]]
** [[Class Reference/WP_Widget_RSS | WP_Widget_RSS]]
** [[Class Reference/WP_Widget_Search | WP_Widget_Search]]
** [[Class Reference/WP_Widget_Tag_cloud | WP_Widget_Tag_cloud]]
** [[Class Reference/WP_Widget_Text | WP_Widget_Text]]
* [[Class Reference/WP_Widget_Factory | WP_Widget_Factory]]
* [[Class Reference/wp_xmlrpc_server | wp_xmlrpc_server]]
* [[Class Reference/wpdb | wpdb]] - Database interface.

== External Classes ==

The following classes are part of other packages included with WordPress.

[http://code.google.com/p/phpatomlib/ '''AtomLib'''] - Atom Syndication Format PHP Library.
* <tt>AtomLib</tt>

[http://scripts.incutio.com/xmlrpc/ '''IXR'''] - XML-RPC Classes:
todo

[http://sourceforge.net/projects/snoopy/ '''Snoopy'''] - HTTP client:
* <tt>Snoopy</tt>

[http://savannah.nongnu.org/projects/php-gettext/ '''PHP-gettext''']:
* <tt>gettext_reader</tt> - Localization Class

[http://magpierss.sourceforge.net/ '''MagpieRSS'''] - a simple RSS integration tool:
* <tt>MagpieRSS</tt>
* <tt>RSSCache</tt>

[http://www.phpconcept.net '''PclZip''']:
* <tt>PclZip</tt> - PclZip is the class that represent a Zip archive.

[http://www.phpclasses.org/browse/package/1743.html '''PemFTP'''] - A Ftp implementation in pure PHP:
* <tt>ftp_base</tt>
** <tt>ftp</tt>

[http://github.com/PHPMailer/PHPMailer '''PHPMailer'''] - Email sending library for PHP:
* <tt>PHPMailer</tt>

[http://www.openwall.com/phpass/ '''PasswordHash'''] - Portable PHP password hashing framework:
* <tt>PasswordHash</tt>

'''POMO''':
* <tt>POMO_FileReader</tt>
* <tt>POMO_Reader</tt>
** <tt>POMO_StringReader</tt>
*** <tt>POMO_CachedFileReader</tt>
**** <tt>POMO_CachedIntFileReader</tt>
* <tt>Translations</tt>
** <tt>Gettext_Translations</tt>
*** <tt>MO</tt>

'''POP3''' - SquirrelMail wrapper
* <tt>POP3</tt>

[http://www.tinymce.com/index.php '''TinyMCE''']:
* SpellChecker
** EnchantSpell
** GoogleSpell
** PSpell
** PSpellShell
* Moxiecode_JSON
* Moxiecode_JSONReader 
* Moxiecode_Logger

[http://pear.php.net/pepr/pepr-proposal-show.php?id=198 '''Services JSON'''] - Converts to and from JSON format.
* Services_JSON
* Services_JSON_Error

[http://simplepie.org/ '''SimplePie''']> - A PHP-Based RSS and Atom Feed Framework.
* <tt>SimplePie</tt>
* <tt>SimplePie_Author</tt>
* <tt>SimplePie_Cache</tt>
* <tt>SimplePie_Cache_DB</tt>
** <tt>SimplePie_Cache_MySQL</tt>
* <tt>SimplePie_Cache_File</tt>
* <tt>SimplePie_Caption</tt>
* <tt>SimplePie_Category</tt>
* <tt>SimplePie_Content_Type_Sniffer</tt> - Content-type sniffing.
* <tt>SimplePie_Copyright</tt>
* <tt>SimplePie_Credit</tt>
* <tt>SimplePie_Decode_HTML_Entities</tt> - Decode HTML Entities.
* <tt>SimplePie_Enclosure</tt>
* <tt>SimplePie_File</tt>

 

== Resources ==

* [http://phpxref.com/xref/wordpress/_classes/index.html PHPXref for WordPress Classes]
* [http://phpdoc.wordpress.org/trunk/classtrees_WordPress.html WordPress PHPdoc Class trees]

==Related==

{{Class Footer}}

[[Category:Classes|*]]
[[Category:Advanced Topics]]
[[Category:WordPress Development]]

{{Pagine_italiane}}