{{Languages|
{{en|Codex:Contributing}}
{{es|Codex:Contribuyendo}}
{{fr|Codex:Contribuer}}
{{pt-br|Codex:Contribuir}}
{{th|Codex:Contributing}}
{{tr|Codex:Katkıda_Bulunmak}}
{{ko|Codex:Contributing}}
}}
== 환영합니다 ==

The Codex is a [[Wikipedia:wiki|wiki]], meaning anyone can edit it. It grows and thrives off of individual contributions from [[Special:Listusers|people like you]]. Thank you for choosing to contribute to the Codex. This page should show you several ways in which you can contribute to the WordPress documentation project at the Codex.

==시작이 반이다==
공헌하기에 앞서:
;계정을 만들고 로그인을 한다: You cannot contribute without first logging in. Your WordPress.org forum username and password will work for the Codex, but you'll need to register for that first if you haven't already.
;사용자 페이지를 만든다: After you have created an account and signed in, please [[Codex:Creating a User Page|create a new User Page]] for yourself. This helps us keep in touch, and helps you to define yourself.
;가이드라인을 읽는다: Please familiarize yourself with the [[Codex:Guidelines|guidelines]] and [[Codex:Styles|styles]] of the site.
;wp-docs에 가입을 한다: Become a member of the [[Mailing_Lists#docs|wp-docs mailing list]]

== 당신이 할 수 있는 것들 ==
#[[#Administration and Maintenance|관리 및 유지]]
#[[#Creating and Managing Content|컨텐츠 생성 및 관리]]
#[[#Discussions and Decisions|토론과 결정]]

===관리 및 유지===

A comprehensive guide to helping in Codex maintenance and administration is available at [[Codex:Maintenance]]. Please read the guide and start helping, now!

===컨텐츠 생성 및 관리===

You can help the Codex grow by creating and managing content on the Codex, in the following ways:

# Edit existing pages to improve the content, the grammar, spelling, and presentation. Don't know where to start? Visit a [[Special:Randompage|Random page]] (there is a ''Random page'' in the left menu, on all pages), or head over to the [[Codex:Maintenance|maintenance]] page and work on the [[:Category:Stubs|Stub Pages]], or pages requiring [[:Category:Copyedits|Copy Editing]]. [[Help:Contents#Help_For_Editors|Help for Editors]] is available, should you need it.
# Pick a task from the [[Codex:Tasks|Task list]] and start working on it.
# Create new content: So, you have a brand new tutorial or guide that you want to share with everyone? Read the [[Codex:Guidelines#New_Pages|guidelines for creating a new page]] and the [[Codex:Creating a New Page|Guide for creating new pages]]. Once you are familiar with the two, you can start creating your new articles.
# Translate the WordPress Codex. There are quite a few individuals and teams leading translation efforts within the WordPress Codex. If you would like to help, sign up for the [[Mailing_Lists#PolyglotsExamples|WP-Polyglots Mailing List]] to find out which translation efforts are already underway and get involved. When an article within the Codex has been translated, following the instructions in the [[Codex:Creating a New Page|Guide for creating new pages]] on how to post a link to the translated article and back to the original. Translations currently include are available at [[Multilingual Codex]].

===토론과 결정===

# Join the [[Mailing_Lists#docs|wp-docs mailing list]] and start sharing your opinions and perspective. Often, there will be discussions about the direction Codex has to take, and decisions will be made as to the functioning, structure of the Codex. Share your knowledge, and contribute to the community by taking active part in discussions, and providing feedback when requested.

===관련===
*[[Codex:About|About Codex]]
*[[Codex:Guidelines|Codex Guidelines]]
*[[Codex:Maintenance|Codex Maintenance]]
*[[Codex:Tasks|Task List]]
*[[Codex:Community_Portal|Community Portal]]
*[[Multilingual Codex]]

[[Category:ko:About Codex]]