{{Languages|
{{en|Codex:Guidelines}}
{{es|Codex_Guidelines}}
{{ko|Codex:Guidelines}}
{{pt-br|Guia}} 
{{zh-cn|Codex:准则}}
}}
This page seeks to outline recommended practices for editors and volunteers at the Codex. Should you have a suggestion for improvement, please post a note on the  [[Mailing_Lists#docs|WordPress Documentation mailing list]].

== 메타 규칙==

# '''적절한 워드프레스 표기법의 준수.''' '''W'''ord'''P'''ress
# '''친절하게''' - 인신공격 또는 무례한글은 안됩니다. 프로답게, 예의바르게.
# 빨리빨리, 자주자주, 정확하게.
# 무엇이든 편집하세요.
# 무엇이든 물어보세요.
# 즐기세요. :)

==표준 관행==

===새로운 페이지===

새로운 문서나 페이지는 언제나 환영입니다. 그렇지만, 

'''당신이 등록된 사용자가 아니라면, 다음의 지침에 따라야 합니다.: [[Codex:Contributing#First_Things_First|Contributing: First Things First]].'''

'''이미 문서가 완벽하다면, 당신은 새로운 페이지를 추가할 수 있습니다. 참조: [[Codex:Creating_a_New_Page|Creating a New Page]].'''

'''문서가 불완전하고 거치른 초안이라면, 사용자 페이지의 서브 페이지로 추가할 수 있습니다. 참조: [[Codex:Creating_a_User_Page|Creating a User Page]].'''

'''여기 문서 작성을 위한 Codex 스타일 지침서가 있습니다: [[Codex:Styles|Codex 스타일]] and [[Help:Editing|수정 도움말]]'''

다음은 Codex 에 새로운 작업 기여를 위한 지침서 입니다.:

# 이미 유사한 문서가 있다면, 기존의 페이지를 개선해 주세요.
# [[Sandbox|샌드박스]]는 연습 할 수 있는 페이지 입니다.
# 문서와 문서 사이에 연결을 위해 다른문서에 대한 링크를 추가합니다. "막다른 페이지"를 만들지 마세요. 즉슨, 다른 Codex 페이지에 대한 링크가 없는 페이지 입니다.
# Once pages are created, they are live, and any links to them will work. When a user clicks their way to an empty page, they have wasted their time. '''Only create pages when you have fairly complete and accurate content to put into them.'''
# Once completed and moved out into the documentation from your user page, links must be made from the "sub" Table of Contents and other related documents to the new article. Ask if you are not sure of where to create a link from the sub-Table of Contents. Do not put a link on the [[Main Page]] without permission from the [[Documentation team]].

Use the following "stubs", categories which designate the state an article is in:

;<nowiki>{{Stub}}</nowiki> :The '''Stub''' categorizes the page as '''incomplete''' and in need of editing and expansion.
;<nowiki>{{Draft}}</nowiki> :Put this at the top of the page. All pages added are scanned by search engines. The '''Draft''' notice at the top of every page will warn others that this is a work in progress, that the information may be incorrect, and may also warn others not to edit it until you are finished working on it.
;<nowiki>[[Category:New page created]]</nowiki> :Defines a page as new and will attract the attention of editors. Do not use until you are ready for editing and/or moving the article out into the general documentation from your user page.
;<nowiki>{{Copyedit}}</nowiki> :Put this at the bottom of the page. '''Copyedit''' designates this article as in need of work, usually general overview and editing. It marks it as fairly complete but needing review. Use <nowiki>{{Stub}}</nowiki> for incomplete articles. (see above)

=== Titles ===

All headings must also be in Title Case.  For example, use "Using the Links Manager" not "Using the links manager". These should be full titles.  Not "IntroToBlogs" but "Introduction to Blogs". 

They should also follow the Dr. Grammar rules regarding capitalization thus:''"In titles, capitalize the first word, the last word, and all words in between except articles (a, an, and the), prepositions under five letters (in, of, to), and coordinating conjunctions (and, but). These rules apply to titles of long, short, and partial works as well as your own papers"'' ''(Anson, Schwegler, and Muth. The Longman Writer's Companion 240)'' 

# Titles are action or task oriented whenever possible. So, "Using the Links Manager" is preferred to "The Links Manager" for example. What search words will a user use when looking for the information?
# Titles shall not have leading or trailing spaces, or unnecessary spaces in between words. Try to avoid using symbols such as "-", "#", "?" and "+"
# Shorter titles are better
# Please avoid using prepositions in titles, as far as possible.
# The Codex is a wiki entirely dedicated to WordPress, so it is natural to have "WordPress" in titles.
# In case of doubt regarding the suitability of a name, mail the [[Mailing_Lists#docs|wp-docs list]] asking for suggestions 
# Do not use '''CamelCase''' for page titles: The Codex does not use CamelCase like some other wikis do. All page titles and therefore links should be of normal title case. For example, the page about Codex should have the title "About Codex", with the link formatted as: <code><nowiki>[[About Codex]]</nowiki></code> and not the CamelCase <code><nowiki>[[AboutCodex]]</nowiki></code>.

===Links===

====External Links====

External links are to used judiciously as they can be notoriously difficult to maintain and verify. Use your best judgment but consider the following when choosing to include an external link on the WordPress Codex:

# The external site has a long history and is not expected to change domain names or become inactive or closed down.
# A good majority of the overall content on the site is representative of WordPress, blogging, and the Open Source community (not a one-off article). 
# The site and its authors represent the WordPress Community.
# The content is timeless, not restricted to one version or an out-of-date version of WordPress, as much as is possible. 
# The site does not sell, promote, or market products or services inconsistent with the WordPress GPL Policy.
# The majority of the site and its content is dedicated to original content not advertising or unoriginal content. 
# There is no alternative to creating similar original content within the Codex.

External links are to listed in the "More Resources" section at the bottom of Codex articles. If they are included within the content, application of the above qualifications becomes even more stringent.

====Links to Themes and Plugins====

With the official directories in place for WordPress Plugins and Themes, all links to Plugins and Themes must only be to those listed within the directories. Links to authors' sites is not permitted. 

====Links to Commercial Content and Sites====

The WordPress Codex documentation team is often faced with questions and decisions to remove links on the Codex to questionable sites. The following should hopefully clarify the decisions and actions. 

# External links must directly be applicable and relevant to the page content as a reference.
# Links to sites which violate the WordPress GPL Policy, [http://wordpress.org/about/domains/ WordPress Trademark for domain names], WordPress Codex Guidelines, and long standing WordPress Community standards and practices are not permitted on the WordPress Codex.
# Links to sites with the clear intention of selling WordPress services and products are not permitted, or used judiciously with the approval of the WordPress Codex documentation team or WordPress Foundation.
# Links to sites with more commercial content, advertising, and intent, without a majority percentage dedicated to original content (and WordPress Community representation) are not permitted.
# It is up to the best judgment of the WordPress Codex documentation and WordPress Foundation representatives to make the final call if a link is disputed.

All links in violation of these terms shall be removed. 

===Codex 카테고리===

Each article within the WordPress Codex is categorized with specific categories, as listed on the [[Special:Categories]] listing. Please use one or more of the categories listed and do not add any new categories without approval from the [[Documentation_team|WordPress Codex Documentation Team]] as a lot of work has gone into developing these categories.

To add a category to a page, at the bottom of the page use the following code, taking care to use the exact spelling and format from the [[Special:Categories]] list.

<code>&#91;&#91;Category:Category name]]</code>

An example would be:

<code>&#91;&#91;Category:WordPress Lessons]]</code>

'''Localization:''' For non-English language documents on the WordPress Codex, please use the two letter language code before the Category Name to group language specific documents:

<code>&#91;&#91;Category:fr:Panneaux_Administration]]</code>

You may also include the language specific category for all documents in that language such as:

<code>&#91;&#91;Category:Turkish Codex]]</code>

'''Link to a Category:''' To create a link to a category, use a colon before the word "Category" and add the link text for improved readability such as:

<code>&#91;&#91;:Category:WordPress_Lessons|WordPress Lessons]]</code>

Which will appear in a sentence as:

<div style="margin:10px; border:1px solid blue; padding:5px">You can find more helpful information in the [[:Category:WordPress_Lessons|WordPress Lessons]] category on the WordPress Codex.</div>

'''Category Pages:''' Category pages are created automatically and customized by the WordPress Codex Documentation Team to include related and subcategories. 

'''More Help:''' For more help on understanding how categories work in the WordPress Codex and MediaWiki, see [[Help:Editing]] and [http://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Help:Category MediaWiki Help on Categories].

====Category Taxonomy====

The WordPress Codex features parent categories and child or subcategories, reflecting the general table of contents. The content is currently grouped as follows:

* Getting Started with WordPress
* Working with WordPress
* Design and Layout
* Advanced Topics
* Troubleshooting
* Developer Documentation
* About WordPress
* Announcements

Under "Getting Started With WordPress" are categories such as [[:Category:WordPress_Lessons|WordPress Lessons]], [[:Category:WordPress_Help|WordPress Help]], [[:Category:Getting_Started|Getting Started]], and [[:Category:Troubleshooting|Troubleshooting]]. Under "Working with WordPress" would be [[:Category:Conditional_Tags|Conditional Tags]], [[:Category:Feeds|Feeds]], [[:Category:Functions|Functions]], [[:Category:Template_Tags|Template Tags]], [[:Category:templates|Templates]], and [[:Category:WordPress_Optimization|WordPress Optimization]]. 

Some categorization makes sense. If an article is about WordPress Plugins, the [[:Category:Plugins|Plugins]] definitely applies. However, what level of technical information is in the article? Who will benefit the most from reading it? If it is really basic, then it should be also categorized in the [[:Category:WordPress_Lessons|WordPress Lessons]] category. If it is advanced and technical, on the coding and writing of Plugins, then it shouldn't be in the WordPress Lessons category. It should be in the [[:Category:Advanced_Topics|Advanced Topics]] and/or [[:Category:WordPress_Development|WordPress Development]], depending upon the sophistication of the information. Use your best judgment.

====Adding a 새로운 카테고리====

Categories in the WordPress Codex are added by the senior members of the [[Documentation_team|WordPress Codex Documentation Team]] and reflect the table of contents of the Codex. In general, the criteria for adding categories to the Codex are:

;Specific to WordPress Features: The category title must reflect the features and functions of WordPress by their proper name. 
;Use Proper WordPress Syntax: While names of WordPress features, functions, and panels may change organically, in general, use the official names for the various features of WordPress such as the '''Administration Panels''' not dashboard, admin panels, or UI for the category name. 
;Use WordPress Codex Styles: All category names must meet these guidelines and the [[Codex:Styles|Codex Styles]] and must use title capitalized, not lowercase as MediaWiki treats upper and lower case URLs as separate pages. Use of "WordPress" in the category is acceptable and not to be avoided if necessary, such as '''About WordPress''' rather than '''About''' as to allow '''About Codex''', '''About Development''', and other "abouts" to be used.
;WordPress Codex Localization: All category names for translated and non-English language pages '''must''' feature the two letter language code before the category.
;Consider the Audience: Create categories based upon keywords and search terms, words that will help the user find the information they need. If the information is basic, use the terms "Beginner" or "Basic" in the category name, as well as "Advanced" if necessary.

===SubPages===

Do not create sub-pages of a page, other than from your own User page, without discussing first on the wp-docs mailing list.  Exceptions to this are the pages under [[Function Reference]] (each of which describes a single function).

===Discussions===

'''Using the "Talk" pages'''

Do you see something that is perhaps incorrect, or needs clarification? The best way to make mention of any issues is to use the DISCUSSION function. Please refrain from adding your comments directly onto the ARTICLE page. At the top of every page is a '''''DISCUSSION tab'''''. This is the place to make your comments, suggestions, and such. Thank you!

#'''Leaving Messages About the Article:''' To leave a message regarding the article, click the '''Discussion''' tab of that article and post your message and sign it (see below).
#'''Leaving Messages for Users:''' Leave a message for a user by editing the User:Talk page associated with the user. Sign it (see below). The user will receive a visual prompt the next time they visit the Codex and Login.
#'''Separate Comments:''' Please create a horizontal rule between comments on the discussion page by using four dashes <nowiki>----</nowiki> between entries. If you are starting a new thread of conversation, consider using the "+" link next to edit, which lets you create a new section.
#'''Always Sign Your Comments:''' To add your "signature" to a comment, add four ~s (tildes) at the end of your comment. This will list your User Name and a link to your User Page and add a time-stamp.  This is very useful for discussion pages. An alternative method is to click on the signature icon at the top of the edit window...it's the second one from the right.

===Codex Voice, Style, and Audience===

The "voice" of the WordPress Codex is one of authority, but also a friendly conversational voice. The style of the Codex is to educate by providing simple and easy-to-use explanations when possible, and technical advice when necessary.

In general, articles are written '''to the reader''', taking the reader through the process.  The pronoun "I" is rarely used, focusing on "you click here" and "you open the template file".  It is not about what you, the author, did, the story behind your decisions, or all the people who helped you succeed. It is about what the user needs to do in order to get their WordPress site up and functioning fast. 

Bullets and lists are used to highlight the steps necessary to outline and streamline the process. Complicated tasks are broken down into small steps, guiding the novice or advanced user quickly to the solution.

The audience is extremely varied in ability and skill in HMTL, XHTML, CSS, and PHP. Articles found within the [[Advanced Topics]] and [[Developer Documentation]] are targeted for the experienced user. [[WordPress Lessons]] are designed for the novice, using language as if the author was the technical support volunteer sitting down next to the user at the computer, guiding them through the process.  The rest of the Codex is targeted towards the beginner to intermediate level user and should contain simple language with links to definitions within the [[Glossary]] when necessary.

===Conventions===

#'''Website Example Names:''' Always use '''example.com''', '''example.org''' or '''example.net''' wherever you need to state a domain as an example. This is per RFC 2602.
#'''Admin:''' The main admin user always has the login <code>admin</code>.
#'''Using People's Names in Examples:''' When a name is needed for an ordinary, non-admin user, or a person, use "'''Harriet'''" as the first name, "'''Smith'''" as the last name.
#'''Administration Panels:''' The WordPress interface is called the '''Administration Panels''' not admin panels or dashboard. Dashboard is a panel on the Administration Panels. 
#'''WordPress is Spelled WordPress:''' WordPress is spelled with TWO capital letters: '''W'''ord'''P'''ress.

==Related==

* [[Codex:About|About Codex]]
* [[Codex:Contributing|Contributing to Codex]]
* [[Codex:Maintenance|Codex Maintenance]]
* [[Codex:Tasks|Task List]]
* [[Codex:Styles|Codex Styles]]
* [[Codex:Community_Portal|Community Portal]]
* [[Multilingual Codex]]

[[Category:ko:About Codex]]

{{Languages|
{{en|Codex:Guidelines}}
{{ko|Codex:Guidelines}}
{{pt-br|Guia}} 
{{zh-cn|Codex:准则}}
}}