{{Copyedit}}
{{Languages|
{{en|Developing a Colour Scheme}}
{{ko|Developing a Colour Scheme}}
}}
색상에 관해서, 워드프레스 [[Using Themes|테마]]를 개발하거나, 디자인할 때 고려할 것이 많다. 집에 페인트 칠하는 것과 비슷하다. 전체 외관을 어떤 색을 칠할 것인가? 문에는 어떤 색을 칠할까?  또는 창 틀은? 강조색, 보색이란?

웹사이트의 색상은 배경과 텍스트의 색에 국한되지 않는다. 함께 사용하는 모든 색상을 고려해야 한다. 예를 들어, 사이트의 링크는 3개의 색상을 선택할 수 있다:

*방문하지 앟은
*마우스를 올려 놓은
*방문한

모든 것이 조화되어 있는지 확인하는 것이 중요하다. 헤더나 마스터 헤드는 색으로 채울 수 있다. 반면 사이트의 나머지 부분의 색은 덜 다채롭다. 사이트 제목, 글의 제목, 목록은 모두 색이 있을 수 있다. 목록의 글머리 기호를 잊지 말아라 - 이것들도 역시 색상이 있다. 너무 많은 색상을 선택하면, 색 구성표 또는 테마를 찾기 어려울 수 있다.

다음은 웹사이트 색상 선택을 도와 주는, 색상 도구(colour tools)와 자료 목록이다.

==배색(Colour Schemes)==
* [http://kuler.adobe.com Kuler - Flash application to create and select colour palettes ] - also includes an [http://www.adobe.com/cfusion/exchange/index.cfm?event=extensionDetail&extid=1429018 Adobe AIR] application for desktop use
* [http://www.colorschemer.com/online.html Online Color Scheme Generator]
* [http://colorschemedesigner.com/ Wellstyled.com's Color Scheme Generator 2]
* [http://www.adampolselli.com/colorschemes/ How to Get Colour Schemes from Photos]
* [http://www.colormatch.dk/ Color Match - gets six matching web colors (MSIE only)]
* [http://www.pic2color.com Picture to Color - recolors WordPress theme using pictures (Coming Soon)]
* [http://www.colourlovers.com/ Colour Lovers - Browse others' color palettes, latest web trend color schemes, download palettes for your application]
* [http://colllor.com/ Web color palette the right way. Create consistent color schemes. Generate color shades, tones and tints values.]

==색상표(Colour Charts)==
* [http://html-color-codes.com/ Color Charts by HTML Color Codes]
* [http://www.visibone.com/color/ Bob Stein's Visibone Colour Charts]
* [http://html-color-codes.info/#Basic_Html_Color_Chart Dynamic Color Chart Of HTML Color Codes]

==색상자(Colour Pickers)==
* [http://www.genopal.com GenoPal - Get pleasant colors]
* [http://www.defencemechanism.com/blog.asp?blog_id=55 Flash Palette Generator]
* [http://telcontar.net/MacApps/ColourSelector/ Free Application for Mac and Windows users for color picking and changing colors]
* [https://addons.update.mozilla.org/extensions/moreinfo.php?application=firefox&id=271&vid=1032 Colorzilla for Mozilla Firefox - Color Picker]
* [https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/flnkogfheemakepeokbheholhfhgcbae Colorhexa for Google Chrome]
* [http://colorcop.net/ Color Cop, multi-purpose color picker for web designers and programmers]
* [http://www.iconico.com/colorpic/index.aspx Iconico ColorPic - Great, simple and free]
* [http://html-color-codes.info/#Advanced_Html_Color_Codes Online  HTML Color Codes Picker]

==색 혼합기(Colour Blenders)==
* [http://www.colorhexa.com/color-blend Color Mixer]
* [http://colormixers.com/ Color Mixers]
* [http://meyerweb.com/eric/tools/color-blend/ Eric Meyer's Color Blender]

==Colour Gradient Generators==
* [http://www.colorzilla.com/gradient-editor/ Colorzilla Gradient Generator]
* [http://www.colorhexa.com/color-gradient Gradient Generator]
* [http://gradients.glrzad.com/ CSS3 Gradient Generator]

==Colour Tools==
* [http://www.colorhexa.com/ Color Hex Information and Conversion]
* [http://www.redalt.com/Tools/ilyc.php Redalt's Color Tools - Enter a URL and reports colors used]
* [http://www.themaninblue.com/experiment/Technicolor/ Manually Add Colors to Change the Layout]
* [http://html-color-codes.info/ Online HTML Color Codes Color Picker and Dynamic Color Chart]
* [http://Nice-Soft.blogspot.com/ SiTCE - Photoshop Script to Change Hue, Saturation And Lightness of WordPress Theme]
* [http://rgbhexcode.com RGBHexCode ColourPicker - Generate RGB/Hex values and create shades, tint, complementary colours, etc.]

==Related==

{{Lessons}}

[[Category:WordPress Lessons]]
[[Category:Design and Layout]]

[[Category:New_page_created]]