{{Languages|
{{en|Documentation_team}}
{{ko|Documentation_team}}
}}
== 주의할 점 ==
이 문서의 대부분은 WordPress.ORG의 문서 팀과 더 이상 관련이 없습니다. 이 문서는 단순히 기록용으로 보관이 되기 때문입니다. 문서 팀의 작업과 새 업데이트는 https://make.wordpress.org/docs/ 에서 확인해주시길 바랍니다.

== 서론 ==
친절한 [[Special:Listadmins|관리자]]와 운영자, 그리고 후원자들은 최신의 워드프레스 문서를 유지하기 위하여 최선을 다하고 있습니다. 다른 많은 사이트와는 달리, 누구나 함께할 수 있습니다!

이곳에 자신의 이름을 추가하기 위해서는 [[Mailing Lists#Documentation|문서 메일링 리스트]]에 가입해야 합니다. 어떻게 문서화 프로세스를 지원하고 시작할수있는지는 [[Codex:Contributing|Codex 에 기여]]를 참조하세요.

코덱스(Codex)의 특정 영역을 지원하는 것을 기록해주시길 바랍니다.

== 팀 ==
이곳에 있는 리스트는 코덱스 문서 작업을 함께하는 사람들입니다. 자유롭게 수정이 가능합니다만 문서훼손이 언어를 막론하고 이루어지는 곳이기도 합니다. 질문이 있으시다면 관리자에게 연락하시길 바랍니다.

=== 관리자 ===
코덱스에 대한 기술적 문제가 있다면 이들에게 영어로 연락하시길 바랍니다.
* [[User:Matt|Matt]] 코덱스 개발, developer topics
* [[User:Janeforshort|Jenifer Wells]] / [http://jane.wordpress.com/ Jenifer Wells (Jane)] Authorative Member of the Docs Team

=== 유지/보수 팀 ===
코덱스에 대한 기술적 문제가 있다면 이들에게 영어로 연락하시길 바랍니다.

* [[User:Carthik|Carthik]] Codex Maintenance, Helping newcomers, Glossary, User Guide 
* [[User:NuclearMoose|NuclearMoose]] 
* [[User:Podz|Podz]] 
* [[User:MDAWaffe|MDAWaffe]]
* [[User:Kafkaesqui|Kafkaesqui]] Template Tags, General
* [[User:Lorelle|Lorelle]] - WordPress Lessons, General Housekeeping
* [[User:Skippy|skippy]]
* [[User:Westi|Westi]]
* [[User:MichaelH|MichaelH]]
* [[User:Mrmist|Mrmist]] [[User_talk:Mrmist|(talk)]] - Codex Janitor

=== 기여자 ===
기여자 번역은 외국분들에 대하여 연락할 방도가 없기때문에 한국인에 한해서만 하도록 하겠습니다.
* [[User:AaronLaw|Aaron Law]]
* [[User:Abdessamad_idrissi|Abdessamad Idrissi]] - General Housekeeping
* [[User:Abdullahsblog|Abdullah]] - Arabic translation
* [[User:Alakhnor|Alakhnor]] - French translation
* [[User:Alex-ye|Nashwan Doaqan]] - Arabic translation
* [[User:Karkandehdotir|Muhammad Abdi]] - Persian translation
* [[User:Ancawonka|Ancawonka]] - Adding helpful sample code and transcribing answers from wp-hackers when appropriate.
* [[User:Angeloverona|Angelo Verona]] - Slovak translation
* [[User:ApiDevlab|ApiDevlab]]
* [[User:Arlen22|Arlen22]] - A wikipedian who has done a lot of organizing on the wikimedia sites and has Mediawiki running on his own server. He also likes making little tweaks to make wikis look nicer, and has invented a new file extension (''.wmu'').
* [[ User:arush|Amanda Rush]] - has adopted the [[http://codex.wordpress.org/Installing_WordPress| Installing WordPress]] page and is part of the Working Group on Accessibility at [[http://make.wordpress.org/accessibility| Make WordPress Accessible.]]
* [[User:AskApache|AskApache]] - Apache/Unix/Server security and feature testing
* [[User:Boneill|Ben O'Neill]]
* [[User:CoachBirgit|Birgit Olzem]] - de_DE Release Manager, Validator, proof-reading, tutoring and organizing german translation team
* [[User:Bishoy.A|Bishoy.A]] - Documentation, Arabic Codex translation, Proud WordPress Developer
* [[User:Bravokeyl|Bravokeyl]] - No Specific Area.
* [[User:MerpDerp|MerpDerp]] - No Specific Area.
* [[User:Kuzmanov|Boris Kuzmanov]] - Macedonian translation
* [[User:GoceMitevski|Goce Mitevski]] - Macedonian translation
* [[User:Carreg|Carreg]] - WPMU
* [[User:CharlesClarkson|Charles K. Clarkson]] - Editing Functions Reference pages. (Currently compiling list of global variables used in WordPress.)
* [[User:Chradil|Christopher J. Hradil]] [[User_talk:Chradil|(talk)]]- Obsessive compulsive problem solver, advanced expertise in coding, css, apache, Unix, integration, xoops, etc. advanced wp user.
* [[User:Chsxf|Christophe SAUVEUR]] - French translation
* [[User:Jcnetsys|Daniel Chatfield]] - Core file contributor
* [[User:DavidHouse|DavidHouse]] - I'm writing some developer's resources at the moment, see my user page.
* [[User:Derwin|Derwin]] - French translation
* [[User:Dianakc|Dianakc]] [[User_talk:Dianakc|(talk)]] - Portuguese-Brazil translation and maintenance. Obsessive compulsive in tutoring and organizing everything. Pergunte se tiver dúvidas sobre wiki.
* [[User:Diego_WP|Diego Alonso González]] - Spanish translation.
* [[User:Diogohb|Diogo Henriques]] - Portuguese-Brazil translation.
* [[User:Dirk|Dirk]]
* [[User:Scriptrunner|Doug Sparling]] - Developer documentation, copy editing, general documentation clean up. Code wrangler and grammar nerd.
* [[User:Eduardozulian|Eduardo Zulian]] - Brazilian portuguese translation
* [[User:EduardoE|EduardoE]] (spanish translation)
* [[User:Ekajogja|Eka]] - Indonesian Translation
* [[User:EvMcD|Evelyn McDonald]] - documentation, editing, proofreading
* [[User:Freediver|Freediver]] - Core documentation
* [[User:Gelihui|Gelihui]] - Chinese translation
* [[User:CreativeJuiz|Geoffrey Crofte]] - French translation, typos and examples corrector.
* [[User:GregLone|Gregory Viguier]] - French bug detector, core contributor.
* [[User:HEngel|HEngel]] - mainly documenting the [[Function Reference]], helping out on [[Codex:Tasks#Mizzed_Spellings|Mizzed Spellings]], and making redirects for capitalization so people don't get lost
* '''&there4;''' [[user:Here|here]]&hellip;[[user_talk:Here|&spades;]] -- experienced with [http://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/User:Here other mediawiki projects], intermediate wordpress user.
* [[User:huston|huston]] - ''editing, instructional design''
* [[User:Ipsoltl|ipsoltl]] - Russian Translation Codex
* [[User:Jnhghy|Jnhghy]] - Core documentation, your forum helper, advanced WordPress user
* [[User:Jean-LucS|Jean-Luc SansCartier]] - French translation
* [[User:Adiant|jonradio]] - Functions
* [[User:Jpaul|Jean-Paul Olivier]] - French translation
* [[User:Jdesrosiers|Julien Desrosiers]] - Going through one function reference (english version) every day. Correcting typos and examples if needed.
* [[User:juliobox|Julio Potier]] - Codex maintenance (french and english), correcting examples and typos. Core contributor. Ticket/trac reader and patch contributor. French translation fixer. 
* [[User:Kazama|kazama]] - Thai translation, Lao translation
* [[User:Keesiemeijer|Keesiemeijer]]
* [[User:Ladygeek|Ladygeek]]-typos,proofreading,Wordpress tutoring,general editing
* [[User:ladymacbeth9|ladymacbeth9]]-- minor code edits, editor, spelling errors, wordpress design and general tidying up.
* [[User:Lastnode|Lastnode]] [[User_talk:Lastnode|(talk)]] - Copyediting
* [[User:Liuming|Liuming]] Chinese translation
* [[User:Lorelle|Lorelle]] - WordPress Lessons, General Housekeeping
* [[User:Loweek|Loweek]] - French translation
* [[User:LukeAmerica2020|Luke America]] - Code Development and Documentation
* [[User:M7CSAT|M7CSAT]] - Copyediting
* [[User:MacManX|MacManX]]
* [[User:Royalpokno|RoyalPokno]] - Khmer Translation
* [[User:Mathieuhays|Mathieu Hays]] - french translation
* [[User:Matthew Thomas|Matthew Thomas]]
* [[User:X12x63|Mehmet Tahta]] - Turkish Translation
* [[User:Motta|Motta]] - Chinese translation
* [[User:miahz|miahz]]
* [[User:MichaelH|MichaelH]] [[User_talk:MichaelH|(talk)]]- edits, Glossary, General, Welcome
* [[User:Morganestes|Morgan Estes]] - code reference migration and copyediting
* [[User:morganiq|morganiq]]
* [[User:Moshu|Moshu]]
* [[User:MisterCat|Nicola Solimano]] - Italian translation
* [[User:Nawrocki|Nawrocki]] [[User_talk:Nawrocki|(talk)]] - Copyediting
* [[User:Nik|Nik Cubrilovic]] 
* [[USer:Shaun|Palmer]]-Theme Development and Frontend Web Development
* [[User:Marfarma|Pauli Price]] - Improve developer documentation of API related to plugin & theme implementation.
* [[User:mordauk|Pippin Williamson]] - Function reference
* [[User:PotterSys|PotterSys]] - ''Translating to Spanish, write in English, [[IRC_Meetups|Meetup]] logger''
* [[User:Priceofsalt|Priceofsalt]]
* [[User:ringmaster|ringmaster]]
* [[User:Ramiy|Ramiy]] - Documentation on [[Template Tags]], [[Function Reference]], [[Multilingual Codex]] and the [[he:עמוד ראשי|Hebrew Codex]].
* [[User:RandyWalker|Randy Walker]] - General
* [[User:Corsonr|Rémi Corson]] - French Documentation
* [[User:Resiny|Resiny]]
* [[User:Rod Whiteley|Rod Whiteley]] - Network, Glossary
* [[User:Ryan Duff|Ryan Duff]]
* [[User:serendipity|serendipity]]
* [[User:Serge_K._Keller|Serge K. Keller]]
* [[User:SergeyBiryukov|SergeyBiryukov]] - Russian Translation
* [[User:Skippy|skippy]] - Advanced Topics, Developer Documentation
* [[User:Sunnyratilal|Sunny Ratilal]] - Function reference
* [[User:Ws5f3dj7|Spencer HIll]] - Codex Organization, Non-Developer Training & Documentation
* [[User:Stedi|Stedi]]
* [[User:Thiedest|thiedest]] - French translation
* [[User:Themedaily|Themedaily]] - Chinese translation
* [[User:tailslee|tailslee]] - Chinese translation
* [[User:Vinod_dalvi|Vinod Dalvi]]
* [[User:Westi|Westi]] [[User_talk:Westi|(talk)]] - Spam Reverting, Change Reviewing, Importing things marked [http://wordpress.org/tags/addtocodex addtocodex] on the forums
* [[User:Wlady97200|Wlady97200]] - French translation
* [[User:Yami McMoots|Yami McMoots]] - Intermediate Topics and Lessons by day, Anal Retentive Usage Maven by night.
* [[User:YannC|YannC]] - Pages /French-Français : "Traduction du Codex : Méthode de travail"
* [[User:Yan Ong Min|Yan Ong Min]] - Myanmar translation
* [[User:Zhouzb889|Zhouzb889]] - Chinese translation
* [[User:Tw2113|Michael Beckwith]] - Theme Development and Frontend Web Development
* [[User:Tinym|Michelle]] - Copyediting, general documentation clean up, theme development
*[[User:Bagerathan|Bage]] - Codex tamil translation and Wordpress Tamil(sl) translation.
* [[User:Baialaps|Mark Chen]] - Chinese translation
* [[User:Moraleida.me|Ricardo Moraleida]] - Brazilian Portuguese translation and General Documentation
* [[User:Canfas|Canfas]] - 한국어 번역
* [[User:Krzheiyah|Ephramar]] - Tagalog Translation
* [[User:Telilbo|Alan Choi]] - 한국어 번역, 웹개발자.
* [[User:Treezi1004|Chanil Park]] - 한국어 번역, 영어 문서와 한국어 문서 작업, 초보 개발자
* [[User:Toghou_j|Toghou_j]] - Documentation, Code Development, Web Developer
* [[User:Wp-buddy|wp-buddy]] - German plugin developer who contributes to the codex from time to time.
* [[User:Kosinix|kosinix]] - Contributes to the docs from time to time.
* [[User:Yulianas|Yulianas]] - Documentation, Web Developer

<div style="text-align:right;">[http://codex.wordpress.org/index.php?title=Documentation_team&action=edit Add yourself, describing your interests and activities on the Codex &raquo;]</div>

[[Category:About Codex]]