{{Languages|
{{en|Support Forum Volunteers}}
{{th|Support Forum Volunteers}}
{{pt-br|Voluntários do Fórum de Suporte}}
{{ko|Support Forum Volunteers}}
}}

__TOC__
== 환영합니다 ==

The Support Forum Volunteers are the members of the [http://wordpress.org/support/ WordPress Support Forum] providing answers to your WordPress problems and issues. 

If you are interested in volunteering and helping out in the WordPress Forum, there is no criteria. Just pitch in where you see fit.  It is recommended that you have the following:

* Familiarity with WordPress functions and features
* Familiarity with [[WordPress Semantics|WordPress terminology]]
* Ability to understand the intent behind the question, not just the question (not everyone can write English very well so sometimes we have to interpret or ask more questions)
* Patience
* Willingness to go the extra step

Guidelines for everyone using the forum can be found at [[Using the Support Forums]]. To keep up with news and information about activities on the Forum, and to ask questions about volunteering, sign up for the [http://lists.automattic.com/mailman/listinfo/wp-forums wp-forums mailing list].

For questions, discussions and other information, click the [[Talk:Support_Forum_Volunteers|Discussion Tab]] at the top of this page.

=== 문서 연결하기 ===
It is often convenient to link to a page from the Docs section when replying on the forums. Here's a nice little shortcut:  Wrap the Page's address in double brackets. Not the full URL, just the Page.

For instance, a quick shortcut to the Using Permalinks page would be typed like this:
<pre>[[Using_Permalinks]] </pre>
When you save the post it'll be converted to a proper link.

''Note: This only works with pages without -'s in their link.''

=== Moderation Assistance===
If you see a topic that you feel needs a Moderator's attention, add the tag "modlook" to it. In particular, watch for some of the following:
* duplicate posts
* excessive (or premature) bumps
* spam & SEO attempts
* accidental password or key data sharing
* non-WordPress related requests

Note that there is no need to add extra tags or to attempt to explain the problem. Moderators are smart; they'll see the issue for themselves. Adding explanations is just more work for them to clean up as well.

Moderators: after handing a modlook topic, be sure to '''remove''' the tag!

== 포럼의 구조 ==

To familiarize you with the structure of the WordPress Forum, here are the various sections and related Codex articles that may help:

=== 설치 ===

'''Problems with getting it running:''' Inquiries and information is provided here to help members with the installation process of WordPress.

* [[Installing WordPress]]
* [[Upgrading WordPress]]
* [[Getting Started with WordPress]]
* [[Moving WordPress]]

=== 어떻게 문제해결 ===

'''Once it's running:''' Generally, this is the catch-all section for all questions about installing, troubleshooting, themes, queries, templates, all the various aspects of WordPress.

* [[Working with WordPress]]
* [[Advanced Topics]]
* [[Troubleshooting]]
* [[FAQ]]
* [[WordPress Semantics]] - understanding the terminology of WordPress

=== 테마와 템플릿 ===

'''XHTML and CSS:''' Questions about WordPress Themes, CSS, XHTML, structure, layout and design are usually found here.

* [[Blog Design and Layout]]
* [[WordPress Lessons]]
* [[Using Themes]]
* [[Using Themes/Theme List]]
* [[Theme Development]]
* [[Templates]]
* [[Template Tags]]
* [[Site Architecture 1.5]]
* [[CSS]]

=== 플러그인과 햌 ===

'''Extensions and modifications:''' This is where information and questions about WordPress Plugins are made and sometimes requests for new plugins. While it is recommended users ask plugin authors for technical support first by checking the author's site, most people begin their questions in this section.

* [[Plugins]]
* [[Managing Plugins]]
* [http://www.wp-plugins.net/ wp-plugins.net - WordPress Plugins List]
* [[Plugins#WordPress_Plugins_List|WordPress Plugins List]]
* [[Writing a Plugin]]

=== 요청 및 피드백 ===

'''Feature requests and criticism:''' Generally, this is the section where people can request modifications, improvements, and give feedback about WordPress. Answers are not always necessary, but if there are bug reports or requests that are already in place, answers need to be provided.

* [[Submitting Bugs]]
* [[About_WordPress#WordPress_Versions|WordPress Versions, Information, and Changelogs]]

=== 당신의 워드프레스 ===

'''Strut your stuff:''' The Your WordPress section is solely for requests for WordPress site reviews and comments.

* [[WordPress Site Reviews]]

=== 여러가지 잡다한 것들 ===

'''Almost everything else:''' Everything else gets set here. This includes news announcements about WordPress or WordPress related topics, information to help WordPress users, and general "doesn't go anywhere else" posts.<br />  
'''Note:''' Posts in Miscellaneous don't have an option to "mark as resolved".

* [[Codex:Community_Portal|WordPress Codex Community Portal]]
* [[About WordPress]]
* [[Current events]]
* [[Contributing to WordPress]]
* [[FAQ_Forum_Hot_Topics]]


[[Category:Forum]]
[[Category:WordPress Help]]