{{Languages|
{{en|WordPress in Your Language}}
{{ja|WordPress を他の言語で使う}}
{{ko|WordPress in Your Language}}
{{th|WordPress in Your Language}}
{{zh-tw|用你的語言使用 WordPress}}
}}

워드프레스는 기본적으로 미국 영어로 표시되지만, 모든 언어에서 사용할 수 있는 기능을 가지고 있는 소프트웨어 입니다. 워드프레스 커뮤니티에서는 이미 여러 나라 언어로 워드프레스가 번역되고 있으며 테마, 번역 파일 및 사용가능한 많은 지원들을 다른 언어에서 사용할 수 있습니다. 그러한 [[Plugins|플러그인]] 덕분에 워드프레스를 이용하여 [[Multilingual_WordPress|다국어 블로그]]를 만들 수도 있습니다.

== 소개 ==
다른 언어로 워드프레스를 사용하기 위해서는, 다음과 같이 따라하세요:

* 이미 당신의 언어로 지원하고 있는지 확인하세요.
* Read [[Installing WordPress in Your Language]] to learn how to install files that will transform WordPress so it displays in your language.
* If your language is not listed below, you can also try the [http://svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/ WordPress Language File Repository] (see [[Translating_WordPress#WordPress_Localization_Repository | this article on the Repository]] for more information). 
* If your language is not available in the Repository or on this page, or if the available translation needs to be improved, you can help! See [[Translating WordPress]] and [[I18n_for_WordPress_Developers|I18n for WordPress Developers]] for more information. 
* There is also a list of [[L10n:Localization_Teams|localization teams]] and [[L10n:Teams Currently Forming|localization teams currently forming]], which you can check to see if a translation is in progress.
* There are also a variety of [[Plugins|WordPress Plugins]] to help create bilingual posts, translations, and change languages between posts.  For more information see the [http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/ Official WordPress Plugin Directory] and [http://www.wp-plugins.net WordPress Plugin Database].
* If you want the admin interface to use and download the wordpress translation files available at http://svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/.  Then  [http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/wp-native-dashboard/ wp-native-dashboard] is very useful. (I have added it specifically here as it did not come up easily when searching.  It provides partially the missing ability to upgrade language files from the svn.)

== Azeri - 아제르바이잔어 &#8211; آذری (azb)==
* Azeri translation from BayBak [http://azerblog.com/wordpress/dil/azb01/wp-content/languages/azb_AZB.mo]. Please download the file, upload it in /wp-content/languages/ folder and update settings in wp-config.php (define('WPLANG', 'azb_AZB'); )

== Afrikaans - 아프리칸스어 - (af)==
* The [http://pootle.locamotion.org/af/wordpress/ Afrikaans translation page] at locamotion.org.
* [http://translate.sourceforge.net/wiki/decathlon/wordpress General information] for WordPress translators at locamotion.org
* [http://translate.sourceforge.net/wiki/decathlon/quickstart Quick Start Guide] for new translators at locamotion.org's Pootle server
* [http://indo-european.info/wordpress/ Translator Widget] 

The team consists of [http://codex.wordpress.org/Special:Emailuser/Leuce Samuel Murray], and is active as of June 2008.  Please, feel free to join me.

Please note:  All attempts to contact the previous Afrikaans team have failed.  The previous team used Launchpad[https://translations.launchpad.net/wordpress/1.5/+pots/wordpress/af/+translate][https://translations.launchpad.net/wordpress/2.0/+pots/wordpress/af/+translate] and had a WordPress team blog[http://afrikaans.wordpress.com/].

== Albanian - 알바니아어 - (sq_AL) ==
* [http://sq.wordpress.org/ WordPress in Albanian]

== Arabic - 아랍어 &#8211; عربي (ar)==
* [http://ar.wordpress.org/ ووردبريس العربي]

== Azeri - Azərbaycan ==
* WordPress Azerbaijan Translators team [https://launchpad.net/~wpaz Wordpress 3.0]
* Azerbaijani translation on Pottle [http://pootle.locamotion.org/az/pootle/]
* Azerbaijani translation from BayBak [http://azerblog.com/wordpress/dil/azr01/wp-content/languages/azr_AZR.mo]. Please download the file, upload it in /wp-content/languages/ folder and update settings in wp-config.php (define('WPLANG', 'azr_AZR'); )

== Bangla - 벵골어 - Bengali (bn_BD)==
* [http://www.shadhinbangla.com/wordpress-bangla-language-pack-beta-3/2011/10/ Wordpress Bangla Language Pack-3.0]
* [http://svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/bn_BD/trunk/messages/ Bengali  localization of wordpress. Project Code: Meghdut]

== Basque - 바스크어 - Euskara (eu)==
* [http://eu.wordpress.org eu.wordpress.org] is just the place where you will find the last basque localized WordPress ready to download.

== Belarusian - 벨로루시어 - Беларуская - Biełaruskaja (be_BY)==
* [http://www.budzma.org/wp-content/uploads/wordpress.2.7.1.BY.zip Беларускі Wordpress 2.7.1]
* Беларускі WordPress 2.1.2: [http://www.wordpress-by.org Belarusian cyrillic] ([http://www.bywebline.org/ mirror #1], [http://eu-by.org/wordpress-be mirror #2])
* Pierakład Wordpress 2.1 na biełaruskuju łacinku: [http://my.opera.com/be-comp/forums/topic.dml?id=200505&t=1186996417&page=1#comment2196381 Belarusian Latin] ([http://www.belmaral.biz/index-wp.html mirror#1])
* Праект беларусізацыі WordPress на [http://www.budzma.org/wordpress.html  Будзьма разам!]

== Bosnian - 보스니아어 - Bosanski (bs_BA)==
* Najnoviju verziju WordPressa u potpunosti prevedenu na bosanski jezik možete preuzeti sa ove stranice: [http://bs.wordpress.org/ WordPress | Bosanski]
* WordPress translated to Bosnian language is available at: 
* [http://bs.wordpress.org/ WordPress | Bosanski]

== Bulgarian - Български (bg_BG)==
* [http://nb.niichavo.org/wordpress-in-bulgarian/ WordPress на Български]
* [http://nb.niichavo.org/archive/calcs/wordpress/in-bulgarian/ Локализирана инсталационна версия на WordPress]

== Catalan - 카탈로니아어 - Català (ca)==
* Catalan version available at: [http://ca.wordpress.org ca.wordpress.org]

== Chilean - 칠레어 - Chile (es_CL) ==
* Chilean version available at: [http://cl.wordpress.org cl.wordpress.org]

== Chinese - 중국어 - 中文 (zh_CN)==
*[http://cn.wordpress.org/ WordPress China] WordPress 官方中文站点。（在这里可以直接下载到WordPress的翻译文件，包括zh_CN.mo）

=== Hong Kong - 홍콩어 - (香港) (zh_HK)===
*Hong Kong official translation 香港中文版 (beta version) on [http://svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/zh_HK/ WordPress subversion repository], with [http://me.abelcheung.org/devel/wordpress-hong-kong-translation/ installation guideline]

=== Taiwan - 대만어 - (台灣) (zh_TW)===
* [http://tw.wordpress.org/ WordPress Taiwan 正體中文] WordPress台灣正體中文網站

== Croatian - 크로아티아어 - Hrvatski (hr)==
* Official Croatian localized version of WordPress available at [http://hr.wordpress.org/ WordPress | Hrvatski]
* Službena lokalizirana inačica WordPressa na hrvatskom jeziku dostupna na je adresi [http://hr.wordpress.org/ WordPress | Hrvatski]

== Czech - 체코어 - Čeština (cs_CZ)==
* [http://cs.wordpress.org/ Čeština pro Wordpress] - Oficiální stránka s aktuální češtinou ke stažení, výchozí zdroj pro automatickou aktualizaci.
* [http://www.separatista.net/ Autoři češtiny pro WordPress] - Web autorů oficiální české verze WordPressu, zajímavé články a novinky.
* [http://www.separatista.net/forum/ Fórum podpory WordPressu] - Diskuzní fórum, pomoc s řešením různých problémů.

== Danish - 덴마크어 - Dansk (da_DK)==
*  [http://da.wordpress.org/ da.wordpress.org]: The official site of the Danish translation of WordPress. Download newest and previous versions.
*  [http://wp-danmark.dk/ wp-danmark.dk]: Danish WordPress community with Danish support forum.
*  [http://udvikling.wp-danmark.dk/ udvikling.wp-danmark.dk]: P2-driven blog used for discussing the development and use of WordPress in Denmark.

== Dutch - 네덜란드어 - Nederlands (nl_NL)==
De Nederlandstalige versie van WordPress wordt beheerd door het [[L10n:Localization_Teams#Dutch|Nederlandse vertaalteam]] onder leiding van Remkus de Vries.

Op [http://nl.wordpress.org nl.wordpress.org] kan de meest recente vertaalde versie gedownload worden. Vragen over WordPress kunnen worden gesteld op het [http://nl.forums.wordpress.org/ Nederlandse forum van nl.wordpress.org]. Hier kan je al je vragen met betrekking tot ''installatie, problemen, themas, vertaling ,etc.'' kwijt.

== Esperanto - 에스페란토어 - (eo)==
* WordPress 2.5.1: [http://bertilow.com/komputo/wordpress.html WordPress 2.5.1 Esperanto]
* SVN-deponejo / SVN repository: [http://svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/eo/ http://svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/eo/]

== Estonian - 에스토니아어 - Eesti (et)==
* SVN: [http://svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/et/ svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/et]

== Faroese (fo)==
* [http://svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/fo/branches/2.3/messages/fo.mo Faroese WordPress 2.3 language file]
* [http://svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/fo/branches/2.6/messages/fo.mo Faroese WordPress 2.6 language file]
* [http://svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/fo/branches/2.7/messages/fo.mo Faroese WordPress 2.7 language file]
* [http://svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/fo/branches/2.8/messages/fo.mo Faroese WordPress 2.8 language file]
* [http://svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/fo/branches/2.9/messages/fo.mo Faroese WordPress 2.9 language file]
* SVN: [http://svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/fo/ http://svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/fo/]
* translate.wordpress.org: [http://translate.wordpress.org/projects/wp/dev/fo/default "WordPress Faroese Translators" team]

== Finnish - 핀란드어 - Suomi (fi)==
Suomenkieliset WordPress-paketit ja asennusohjeet: [http://fi.wordpress.org/ Wordpress Suomi]

== French - 프랑스어 - Français (fr_FR)==
* http://fr.wordpress.org/
* Documentation: [[fr:Main_Page|Codex en Fran&ccedil;ais]] ([[fr:Codex:Contribuer|Contribuez]] à son expansion !)
* [http://codex.wordpress.org/Category:French_Codex Pages du Codex en Français]
* [http://wordpress-fr.net/ Communauté WordPress Francophone]
* [http://wordpress-fr.net/support/ Forums de soutien et d'entraide en français]

== Gaeilge - Irish ==
Leagan Gaeilge de WordPress 2.0.4. 
[http://www.sigmagroup.ie/wordpress/ Cliceáil anseo] do na comhaid .po agus .mo
Má athraíonn tú leathanaigh php i WordPress bí cinnte go sabháileann tú gach ceann acu i bhfoirm UTF-8.  
Íoslódáil [http://www.textpad.com/ TextPad] (saor in aisce) chun do leathanaigh php a chur in eagar.  
Caithfear níos mó oibre a dhéanamh más maith leat an Painéal Riaracháin uilig a aistriú go Gaeilge.  Má tá ceist ag éinne nó má tá botún sna comhaid déan teangmháil liom [padraigbeirne ag ireland.com].  Pádraig Beirne.

== Galician - 갈리시아어 - Galego (gl_ES)==
'''Última versión da tradución: 3.2 [04/07/2011]''', a cargo do [http://gl.wordpress.org/ grupo de localización de Wordpress en galego]: [http://svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/gl_ES/tags/3.2/ WordPress en Galego v. 3.2]

* [http://gl.wordpress.org Páxina oficial de WordPress en galego]

* [http://buddypress.org/community/groups/wordpress-en-galego/ Grupo de discusión oficial, público e aberto sobre a localización de WordPress en galego]

== Georgian - ქართული (ge_GE) ==
ქართული ენის პაკეტი ვორდპრეს 2.7 ვერსიისთვის. უახლესი ვერსიის გადაწერა შეგიძლიათ მისამართიდან [http://georgianisation.site88.net/?p=3 ge_GE.mo]

== German - 독일어 - Deutsch (de_DE)==
Offizielle Deutsche Version unter [http://de.wordpress.org de.wordpress.org] mit deutscher Sprachdatei.

Auf [http://wordpress-deutschland.org WordPress Deutschland] findet man [http://forum.wordpress-deutschland.org Foren], [http://wordpress-deutschland.org/download deutsche Sprachdateien, Themes, Plug-Ins, ein WordPress-Rundum-Sorglos-Paket], [http://doku.wordpress-deutschland.org/ eine Doku] und ein [http://blogmap.wordpress-deutschland.org/ WordPress-Nutzerverzeichnis] sowie den [http://planet.wordpress-deutschland.org Planet WordPress], ein Metablog welches Meldungen rund um WordPress aus dem ganzen Netz sammelt.

[http://wordpress-deutschland.org/ WordPress Deutschland] is the home of the German WordPress User Community, hosting the [http://doku.wordpress-deutschland.org/ documentation] (work in progress), a [http://forum.wordpress-deutschland.org/ discussion board], [http://wordpress-deutschland.org/download up/download area] and the [http://planet.wordpress-deutschland.org/ Planet WordPress] metablog, which is gathering WordPress related information from several blogs, as well as a German WordPress [http://blogmap.wordpress-deutschland.org/ user directory].

* Online Documentation: [http://doku.wordpress-deutschland.org/ Deutsche WordPress Dokumentation]
* German Language [http://wordpress-deutschland.org/download File, Themes, localized PlugIns and a ready-to-go package].

== Greek - 그리스어 - (el)==
[http://www.wpmania.gr WPmania.gr] is the home of the Greek WordPress User Community (Ελληνικό WordPress), providing support to Greek-speaking users.
[http://www.wpmania.gr/forum/ Greek WordPress Forum] offers assistance to end-users and Greek [http://codex.wpmania.gr/ documentation].

You can make suggestions for improvement to the [http://translate.os.cs.teiath.gr/el/wordpress/  Greek WordPress] and [http://translate.os.cs.teiath.gr/el/WordPressThemes Greek Themes] translations at our [http://translate.os.cs.teiath.gr/el/index.html Web-based translation site].

* Greek Themes
** [http://www.nikynik.com/wpstyles Nikynik (page)] ([http://translate.os.cs.teiath.gr/el/WordPressThemes/nikynik.po el.po])
** [http://www.wordpress-it.it/stats/download.php?id=6 Almost Spring by Becca (ZIP file)] ([http://translate.os.cs.teiath.gr/el/WordPressThemes/almost-sprint.po el.po])
** [http://translate.os.cs.teiath.gr/el/WordPressThemes/ more]

== Hebrew - 히브리어 - עברית (he_IL)==
<p style="direction: rtl; text-align: right !important;">[http://he.wordpress.org/ וורדפרס בעברית] - הפצה מותאמת לעברית, עם עדכונים קבועים, כתיבה מימין לשמאל, תמיכה מלאה בעברית, וערכות עיצוב מעוברתות.</p>

<ul class="alignright" style="direction: rtl; text-align: right !important;">
<li style="direction: rtl; text-align: right !important;">[http://codex.wordpress.org/he:%D7%A2%D7%9E%D7%95%D7%93_%D7%A8%D7%90%D7%A9%D7%99 קודקס בשפה העברית] - מאגר תיעוד בעברית לוורדפרס בעברית, בפורמט ויקי באתר wordpress.org .</li>
<li style="direction: rtl; text-align: right !important;">[http://groups.google.com/group/wpheb קבוצת דיון של וורדפרס בעברית בגוגל] - קהילת תמיכה פעילה לוורדפרס בכלל ווורדפרס בעברית בפרט.</li>
</ul>

[http://he.wordpress.org/ Wordpress Hebrew] - Hebrew localization of Wordpress, with builtin RTL support, constantly updated and with a localized default theme.

* [http://codex.wordpress.org/he:%D7%A2%D7%9E%D7%95%D7%93_%D7%A8%D7%90%D7%A9%D7%99 WordPress Codex in Hebrew] - WordPress Codex in Hebrew in a Wiki format at wordpress.org .
* [http://groups.google.com/group/wpheb Hebrew support group] - Active support community, dealing with WordPress and WordPress Hebrew.

== Hindi - हिन्दी - (hi_IN) ==

वर्डप्रेस की हिंदी वेब साईट के लिए [http://hi.wordpress.org hi.wordpress.org] पर आयें.<br />
(English: Please visit [http://hi.wordpress.org hi.wordpress.org] for Hindi version of WordPress Site.)

वर्डप्रेस कोडेक्स का हिंदी संस्करण: [[hi:Main Page]]

== Hungarian - Magyar (hu_HU)==

A [http://wphu.org/ WordPress Magyarország] oldalain mindent megtalálsz, ami a WordPress-szel kapcsolatban érdekelhet.

* [http://hu.wordpress.org WordPress | Magyar]
* [http://dokumentacio.wphu.org Dokumentáció]
* [http://wphu.org/letoltes Magyar nyelvű komponensek és fordítások]
* [http://forum.wphu.org Fórum]

== Icelandic - íslenska (is_IS)==
* WordPress er þýtt yfir á íslensku af sjálfboðaliðum. Frekari upplýsingar má nálgast á vefsíðu opinberu þýðingarinnar: [http://is.wordpress.org/ is.wordpress.org]

== Indonesian - Bahasa Indonesia (id_ID)==
Paket WordPress dalam Bahasa Indonesia dapat ditemukan di 
[http://id.wordpress.org/ ID.WordPress.org]

Repositori pelokalan WordPress dapat di-checkout dari 
[http://svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/id_ID]

Informasi lebih lengkap bisa Anda baca di:
* [http://codex.wordpress.org/L10n:Localization_Teams#Indonesian_-_Bahasa_Indonesia Halaman Tim Penerjemah Bahasa Indonesia]
* [http://wordpress.or.id/ Situs Web Lokal WordPress Indonesia]

== Italian (it_IT)==
La versione italiana viene distribuita dal tema ufficiale di traduzione tramite due diversi siti
* [http://it.wordpress.org/ it.wordpress.org Repository ufficiale WP]

== Japanese - 일본어 - (日本語 - ja)==
'''WordPress Japanese sites:'''
* ja.wordpress.org: [http://ja.wordpress.org/ WordPress | 日本語]
* Download: [http://ja.wordpress.org/releases/ WordPress 日本語版ダウンロード]
* Japanese Language Resource Files: [http://svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/ja/tags/ オリジナル英語版版用日本語リソース]（日本語化ファイル）
* Installation Manual: [http://ja.wordpress.org/install-ja/ インストール方法]
* Support Forums: [http://ja.forums.wordpress.org/ 日本語フォーラム]
* Documentation: [http://wpdocs.sourceforge.jp/ WordPress Codex 日本語版]（マニュアル・ドキュメント）

''' Japanese Plugins:'''
* Japanese Plugins/Plugin Language Files: [http://wppluginsj.sourceforge.jp/ WordPress Plugins/JSeries]

== Javanese - 자바어 ==
* [http://jawa.lesehan.or.id/ Basa Jawi]

== Kazakh - Қазақша (kk) ==

=== Қазақша (kk_KZ, kk-Cyrl) ===
Келесі көздерден қазақша жерсіндіру файлдарын алуыңыз мүмкін (тура қазір тек Кирилл жазуындағы тәржімені): 
* [http://translate.wordpress.org/projects/wp/3.1.x/kk/default WordPress 3.1.x main]
* [http://translate.wordpress.org/projects/wp/3.1.x/ms/kk/default WordPress 3.1.x Multisite]
* [http://translate.wordpress.org/projects/wp/3.1.x/twentyten/kk/default WordPress 3.1.x TwentyTen]

=== قازاقشا (kk_CN, kk-Arab) ===

=== Qazaqşa(kk_TR, kk-Latn) ===

== Khmer(Cambodian Language)-ខ្មែរ (km_KH)==
[http://translate.e-khmer.net/wordpress/ WordPress in Khmer] is the homepage of the Khmer WordPress .
There are many articles can be shared among Khmer WordPress users. This homepage is in Khmer.  

* Documentation: [http://translate.e-khmer.net/wordpress/ Khmer]
* WordPress 2.0.1: [http://translate.e-khmer.net/ Khmer WordPress 2.0.1]

== Korean - 한국어 - (ko_KR)==
* 현재 버전: [http://ko.wordpress.org/ ko.wordpress.org] 
* 문서: [http://www.wordpress.co.kr/codex Korean]

== Kyrgyz - Кыргызча (ky) ==
* WordPress in Kyrgyz discussion page: [http://perevod.kloop.kg WordPress Кыргызча!]

== Kurdish(Sorany) وۆردپرێس بەکوردی ==
* WordPress in Kurdish Sorani official Homepage: [http://ku.wordpress.org وۆردپرێس بەکوردی]

== Kurdish(kurmanji) Kurdî ==
To help translation, register at: [https://translations.launchpad.net/wordpress/2.8/+pots/wordpress/ku/+translate launchpad.net]

Silav, niha hûn dikarin wordpressê bi kurdî jî bi kar bînin. 

* Li vir jî hûn dikarin alîkariya wergerandina wordpressê bikin: [https://translations.launchpad.net/wordpress/2.8/+pots/wordpress/ku/+translate launchpad.net]
*Ji bo têkiliyê binivîsin min: simurg56@gmail.com

== Latvian (Latviešu) (lv)==
* Official site: [http://lv.wordpress.org WordPress latviešu valodā]
* [http://groups.google.com/group/wordpress-latviesu-valoda/ Mailing list, discussion group]

== Lithuanian - Lietuviškai (lt_LT)==
[http://blogr.lt/2010/02/04/blogr-lt-wordpress-sistemos-sulietuvinimas/ Lithuanian translation]

== Macedonian - Македонски (mk_MK)==
* http://translate.wordpress.org/projects/wp

== Malagasy (mg_MG)==
*[http://wordpress-malagasy.googlecode.com/svn/wp/pot/mg_MG.mo .mo file for Wordpress 2.0.6]
*[http://code.google.com/p/wordpress-malagasy/ Project page]

== Malay &ndash; Bahasa Melayu (ms_MY)==
Anda boleh memuat turun WordPress versi Melayu di blog [http://malaysia.wordpress.net WordPress Malaysia] melalui [http://malaysia.wordpress.net/muatturun pautan ini].

Bagi pengguna WordPress yang lama, fail-fail terjemahan boleh dimuat turun di http://svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/ms_MY/branches/2.3/messages/.

== Mongolian (Монгол хэл) == 
* We are working on WordPress Version 3.0 translation, and 70% is almost translated.

== Myanmar (ဗမာစာ)==
Language Name : Myanmar (Myanmar) ြမန်မာ (ြမန်မာ)

WP Locale : my_MM

GlotPress Slug : mya

Locale Site URL :[https://mya.wordpress.org https://mya.wordpress.org].

Translation Team : [http://atp.ayar.co Ayar Translation Projects]

Description : First ever localized blogging platform. Now We release WordPress 3.1. We use Ayar in our translation package. Feel free to change what you want. If you want to change Ayar to others use myanmar text tools.

== Nias - Li Niha (ni_ID)==
Fakake WordPress ba Li Niha ta'andrö enai lafazökhi nahia li khöda ba dania tola muhalö ia moroi bakha ba: ...

Repositori nahia wohalöwö ba ndroto-ndroto WordPress fareso ba 'checkout' ...
[http://svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/ni_ID Nias - Li Niha (?)] atau [http://svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/ "chekout"]

== Norwegian (norsk)==

===Bokmål (nb_NO)===
* [http://nb.wordpress.org/ WordPress på bokmål] contains all Norwegian bokmål language files for WordPress.
* [http://norskwp.no/forum/ Norsk WordPress forum] Support forum in Norwegian for WordPress.

===Nynorsk (nn_NO)===
* [http://nn.wordpress.org/ Wordpress på nynorsk] contains all Norwegian nynorsk language files for WordPress.

== Persian - پارسی (fa_IR) ==

=== WordPress Persian - وردپرس فارسی (fa_IR)===
* WordPress 3.2.1: [http://wp-persian.com/ (وردپرس فارسی ۳٫۲٫۱ (بر اساس آخرین نسخه رسمی وردپرس - Persian WordPress 3.2.1]
* Forum: [http://forum.wp-persian.com/ انجمن‌های پشتیبانی - Forums]	 
* Codex: [http://codex.wp-persian.com/ مستندات - Codex]	 
* Planet: [http://planet.wp-persian.com/ سیاره - Planet]	 
* Plugins: [http://plugins.wp-persian.com/ افزونه‌ها - Plugins]	 
* Themes: [http://themes.wp-persian.com/ پوسته‌ها - Themes]

=== FarsiPress - فارسي پرس ===
* ّFarsiPress (Wordpress in Farsi): [http://farsipress.ir/ فارسي پرس - FarsiPress2.2 ]
فارسي پرس نسخه کاملا ترجمه شده وردپرس با تنظيمات نصب فارسي مي باشد
* ّFarsiPress Forum: [http://forum.farsipress.ir اتاق گفتگوي فارسي پرس ]
* FarsiPress Development Blog [http://blog.farsipress.ir وبلاگ توسعه فارسی پرس ]


<!-- the persian language title in english is 'persian', not 'farsi' -->

== Polish - 폴란드어 - Polski (pl_PL)==
* [http://pl.wordpress.org/ Polska sekcja strony wordpress.org]

== Portuguese - 포르투칼어 - Português==

=== European Portuguese (pt_PT) ===
* [http://pt.wordpress.org Página oficial de downloads (pt.wordpress.org)]
* [http://www.wp-portugal.com Comunidade Portuguesa de WordPress]
* [http://pt.forums.wordpress.org Fórum de suporte]

=== Brazilian Portuguese (pt_BR) ===
* [http://br.wordpress.org Site Oficial do WordPress em Português do Brasil]
* [http://wp-brasil.org Comunidade Brasileira de WordPress]
* [http://br.forums.wordpress.org Fórum de suporte]

== Romanian - Română (ro_RO)==
* [http://ro.wordpress.org/ Echipa pentru localizarea WordPress în română]
* [http://ro.forums.wordpress.org/ Asistență WordPress în română]
* [http://ro.buddypress.org/ Echipa pentru localizarea BuddyPress în română]
* [http://codex.wordpress.org/Codex-ul_în_română Codex-ul în română]

== Russian - 러시아어 — Русский (ru_RU)==				
* [http://ru.wordpress.org WordPress на русском]
* [http://ru.forums.wordpress.org Форумы поддержки WordPress]
* [http://codex.wordpress.org/ru:Main_Page Русский Кодекс] — Документация
* [http://code.google.com/p/l10n-ru/ Проект l10n-ru] — Файлы перевода WordPress MU и BuddyPress, локализованные плагины

== Sakha - Саха (sah)==
In progress

* http://pootle.sakhatyla.ru/sah/wordpress/

== Serbian — Српски (sr_RS)==
*[http://sr.wordpress.org/ Званична Вордпрес страница] са [http://sr.wordpress.org/releases готовим локализованим пакетима] и упутствима за [http://sr.wordpress.org/docs/clean-install/ постављање нове инсталације] Вордпреса, [http://sr.wordpress.org/docs/upgrade/ ажурирање постојеће инсталације] новим издањем и [http://sr.wordpress.org/docs/serbianisation/ локализовање постојеће инсталације] на српски језик.
* [http://svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/sr_RS/ Званично складиште превода]
* [http://sr.forums.wordpress.org/ Званични форум о Вордпресу на српском]

== Sinhala - සිංහල (si_LK)==
* Availble from [http://si.wordpress.org/ http://si.wordpress.org/]
* Sinhala Translations are done by [https://launchpad.net/~wp-sinhala Wordpress Sinhala Team]

== Slovak - 슬로바키아어 &#8211; Slovenčina (sk_SK)==
* [http://sk.wordpress.org/ WordPress Slovensko] - WordPress Slovensko
* [http://www.wp.sk/ www.wp.sk] - Komunitný portál

== Slovenian - 슬로베니아어 - Slovenščina (sl_SI)==
* [http://sl.wordpress.org/ sl.wordpress.org] - Najnovejši prevodi WordPress-a v Slovenščino.

== Spanish - 스페인어 - Espa&ntilde;ol ==
=== Espa&ntilde;ol - Espa&ntilde;a (es_ES) ===
* Recomendamos la traducción oficial, descargable desde el sitio oficial [http://es.wordpress.org WordPress Español]
* Si quieres ver el listado de otras traducciones de '''WordPress''' pulsa [http://codex.wordpress.org/WordPress_in_Your_Language#WordPress_2 aquí].
* Si quieres ver el listado de otras traducciones de '''WordPress MU''' pulsa [http://codex.wordpress.org/WordPress_in_Your_Language#WordPress_MU_2 aquí].

=== Espa&ntilde;ol - Per&uacute; (es_PE) ===
Publicación de las traducciones oficiales de '''WordPress al Español Formal''', basado en el español internacional (sin modismos), que puede ser configurado a una localización en particular y también utilizado por cualquier usuario de habla hispana. 
Las traducciones son realizadas por el equipo de [http://pe.wordpress.org/ WordPress Perú].

== Sundanese - 순다어 - Basa Sunda (su_ID)==
Liang undeuran sarta catetan ngeunaan WordPress basa Sunda tiasa ditingal di [http://su.wordpress.org/ su.WordPress.org]. Kiwarian atahan disimpen di [http://svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/su_ID/ goah WordPress Sunda]

Kanggo tempat ngadu bako kalih pitulung sanésna ngeunaan WordPress basa Sunda, tiasa ngiringan [http://id.forums.wordpress.org/ Panglawungan Rojongan WordPress Indonésia]

== Swedish - 스웨덴어 - Svenska (sv_SE)==
Se [http://sv.wordpress.org sv.wordpress.org]

== Tajik (tg)==
* Тоҷикӣ - In progress [http://www.ibrahimrustamov.com/files/tajik_wordpress.po.html Tajik wordpress in progress]

== Tamil - 타밀어 -  தமிழ்==

=== இலங்கைத் தமிழ் - Tamil-Sri Lanka (ta_LK) ===
* மொழிமாற்றம் நடைபெற்று வருகின்றது. [http://ta-lk.wordpress.org Translation in progress]. 
*மொழிமாற்றம் தொடர்பான கேள்விகளுக்கு [http://ask.oorodi.com இற்கு வாருங்கள்]

== Thai - 태국어 - (th)==
* เวบไซต์: [http://th.wordpress.org th.wordpress.org],  [http://svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/th ที่เก็บไฟล์สำหรับการพัฒนา]
* คู่มือภาษาไทย: [http://codex.wordthai.com หน้าคู่มือภาษาไทย]
* การลงไฟล์ภาษาไทย: [http://blog.wordthai.com/wordpress-thai/ คู่มือการลงเวิร์ดเพรสภาษาไทย],  [http://www.isriya.com/node/1156 isriya.com]

* BuddyPress: [http://blog.wordthai.com/buddypress-thai/  บั๊ดดี้เพรส ภาษาไทย buddypress thai]
* bbPress: [http://blog.wordthai.com/bbpress-%E0%B8%A0%E0%B8%B2%E0%B8%A9%E0%B8%B2%E0%B9%84%E0%B8%97%E0%B8%A2/  bbPress ภาษาไทย bbPress thai]

== Turkish - 터키어 - Türkçe (tr)==
* [http://tr.wordpress.org/ Türkçe sürüm]

== Ukrainian - Українська (uk)==
[http://uk.wordpress.org/ uk.wordpress.org] - Офіційний Український WordPress
* [http://uk.wordpress.org/releases/ uk.wordpress.org/releases/] — список випусків
* [http://wordpress.co.ua/ UA Wordpress] — проект української локалізації WordPress.

== Uighur - <span style="font-family:UKIJ Tuz Tom">ئۇيغۇرچە</span> ==
* <span style="font-family:UKIJ Tuz Tom">ۋوردپرەس ئۇيغۇرچە رەسمىي تور بېتى</span>: [http://ug.wordpress.org/ ug.wordpress.org]
* <span style="font-family:UKIJ Tuz Tom">ۋوردپرەس ئۇيغۇرچە نەشرىنىڭ تىل بولىقى</span>: [http://svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/ug_CN/trunk/messages/ ug_CN.mo]

== Urdu - اردو ==
* <i>WordPress in Urdu - اردو is ongoing, but slow.  Need more contributors.</i>

== Uzbek - O&lsquo;zbekcha (uz_UZ)==
*[http://uz.wordpress.org/ WordPress|O&lsquo;zbekiston]
*WordPressning o&lsquo;zbekcha tarjimasi (beta) [http://svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/uz_UZ/ WordPress subversion repository]

== Vietnamse - 베트남어 - Tiếng Việt (vi)==
*[http://vi.wordpress.org WordPress tiếng Việt]<br/>
*Dịch bởi link2caro @ [http://wordpress.net.vn/ WordPress VietNam] - [http://techinfovn.com/ Tech Info Vietnam]
*[http://wordpress.net.vn/showthread.php?21-Vi%E1%BB%87t-h%C3%B3a-blog-Wordpress/ Cài đặt bản Việt hoá]

== Welsh - 웨일스어 - Cymraeg (cy)==
* [http://slebog.net/pecynnau/wordpress/ Welsh package - Pecyn yn Gymraeg]
* [http://slebog.net/blog/wordpress/ Welsh installation instructions - Cyfarwyddiadau arsefydlu yn Gymraeg]
* [http://svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/cy/branches/1.5.2/messages/cy.mo Welsh language file for 1.5.2]
* [http://svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/cy/branches/1.5.2/messages/theme-cy.mo Welsh language file for 1.5.2 default theme]

[[Category:Translating WordPress]]   
[[Category:Advanced Topics]]