This is a list of people who volunteered to contribute by localizing WordPress to given locale, but we don't have any confirmation of that. It means, that they may not want to work anymore - so if you wish to help, mail them, add yourself and start contributing please!

The list of already formed localization teams is available at [[L10n:Localization_Teams]].

==Armenian Localization Team [arm]==
Team leaders: [http://www.liftstudios.ca Haig Armen]<br />
Interested contributors please contact me at:
haig (at) liftstudios.ca

==Belarusian Localization Team [be-BY]==
Team leaders: [http://www.aliaksei.org Aliaksei]<br />
Interested contributors please contact me at:
aliaksei.by (at) gmail.com

==Bulgarian Localization Team [bg_BG]==

Want to help out with translations and need a "Get started" guide? Please contact [http://profiles.wordpress.org/petya Petya] via the [http://bg.wordpress.org/contact bg.wordpress.org contact form]

==Cape Verdean Creole (Badiu Kriolu) Localization Team [cv-ST]==
Team leaders: [http://deltacultura.org Delta Cultura Cabo Verde]
We are working on language files in badiu creole according to the recommendations of [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ALUPEC ALUPEC]. We are also looking for contributers for translations to sampadjudu creole. Interested contributers please contact us:
wordpress (at) deltacultura.org

==Galician Localization Team [gl_ES]==
Team leader: [http://www.adorfunteca.org/ Amador Loureiro Blanco -dorfun-]<br />
Se estás interesada/o en localizar o WordPress na nosa lingua, podes poñerte en contacto comigo en wpgalego [en] adorfunteca.org

==Georgian Localization Team [ka-GE]==

==Hausa Localization Team [hau]==
Just getting going. Please contact hausa (at) m.rowbory.co.uk to get in touch (David Rowbory).

==Hindi Localization Team [hi_IN]==

Team leader: [http://www.wpgyan.com Gyanendra Giri] <br />
I'm trying to localize wordpress to Hindi. If you're interested to help me with it, please do mail me at wphindi at gmail dot com

* Others working on Wordpress L10n project for Hindi
* Vishal Singh

==Kannada Localization Team [kn_IN]==

Team leader: [http://platonic.techfiz.info Omshivaprakash H.L] <br />
I'm trying to localize wordpress to Kannada. If you're interested to help me with it, please do mail me at omshivaprakash at gmail dot com or shivu at shivu dot in

* Others working on Wordpress L10n project for Kannada
* Rudra Murthy 
* Prasanna S P

==Lao Localization Team [lo]==
Team leader: [http://au8ust.org/ au8ust]<br />
Website: [http://laoblogger.com/wordpress-lao-localization/ LaoBlogger.com]<br />
Join Lao localization team to help translate WordPress into Lao language!

==Mexican Localization Team [es_MX]==
Team leader: Marco Zink<br />
Contribute localizing WordPress for mexican spanish. You can contact us directly in [http://es-mx.wordpress.org/contact/ WordPress Español (México)].

==Nepali Localization Team [ne_NP]==

==Flemish Localization Team [nl_BE]==
Team leader: [http://nl-be.wordpress.org/ Peter JH]<br />
Interested contributors please join http://wpnlbe.wordpress.com

==Peruvian Localization Team [es_PE]==
Team leader: [http://profiles.wordpress.org/reyson Reyson]<br />
Official WordPress.org Site: [https://pe.wordpress.org/ WordPress Perú]<br />
You have any question? Contact us on: [https://pe.wordpress.org/contacto/ WordPress Peru Contact]

==Philippine (Tagalog) Localization Team [tl]==
Team leader: Ephramar [http://codex.wordpress.org/User:Krzheiyah (krzheiyah)]. <br />
Interested contributors please contact ephramar(at)outlook(dot)com <br />
Official WordPress.org Site: [https://tl.wordpress.org/contact/ WordPress Tagalog] <br />

==Persian Localization Team [fa_IR]==
Team leaders: [http://codex.wordpress.org/User:karkandehdotir (محمد عبدي)]. <br />
Website: [http://karkandeh.ir/ Persian WordPress]<br />
Interested contributors please contact me at:
info (at) karkandeh.ir

==Slovak Localization Team [sk-SK]==
Team leader: [http://au8ust.org/ Angelo Verona]<br />
Website: [http://wp.bgt-angels.sk/ Wordpress Slovakia]<br />
Join Slovak localization team to help translate WordPress into Slovak language,
or visit the website for support or to make comments and suggestions.

==Swiss German Team [gsw]==
Who would like to contribute to a Swiss-German localization?<br />

Contact me at:<br />
mail (at) wpschweiz.ch

==Oriya Localization Team [or_IN]==
Team leader: [http://www.ajaymeher.com Ajay_K_Meher]. <br />
Interested contributors please contact ajay@qlogixsolutions.com

Requesting all Odiya WP enthusiasts to come forward and unite to translate Wordpress in Oriya.



[[Category:Translating WordPress]]
[[Category:Advanced Topics]]