{{Oldversion}}
==Manage &rarr; Pages==

[[Pages]] are like posts but "live outside of the normal blog chronology" as you are reminded when you visit the Manage Pages SubPanel.  Most everything here is essentially the same as for the [[Manage Posts SubPanel]].

Back to [[Administration Panels]].

==Table of Pages==

All of your blog's pages are displayed as rows in the table of pages.  The table has the following columns:

*'''ID''' - The page's ID number is the unique number WordPress' database uses to identify individual pages.  This is exactly like a post's ID.
*'''Title'''  - The title of your page.
*'''Owner''' - Pages are owned, not authored.
*'''Updated''' - This column shows the time at which the Page was most recently updated.
*'''View''' - This link will display the page as the rest of the world sees it.
*'''Edit''' - Edits the page.  This takes you back to the [[Write Page SubPanel]] and allows you to modify what you've written or change any of the page's option settings.  You only have this option if you own the page or have a higher user level than the owner.
*'''Delete''' - Deletes the page.  You will get a warning, which is good since ''posts cannot be undeleted''.  You only have this option if you own the page or have a higher user level than the owner.

At the bottom of the table is a link to create a new page.  This takes you to the [[Write Page SubPanel]].

==Sorting Pages==

You can sort Pages by search term, author and page type from the Page SubPanel.

Back to [[Administration Panels]].

[[Category:Obsolete Administration Panels]]