=== Privacy when using WordPress ===

If you are looking for the privacy policy for visitors to wordpress.org it is located at [https://wordpress.org/about/privacy/ https://wordpress.org/about/privacy/].

This page covers the data shared with api.wordpress.org during use of an installation of WordPress software.

WordPress is used on a huge number of websites and we want to ensure that you get the best user experience in creating your websites. We offer easy update processes for WordPress, Themes and Plugins.

During this process we collect data from your site and store it, this information includes the following:

*Your sites URL
*WordPress version number
*PHP version
*MySQL version
*The number of users on your blog
*Whether you are using WordPress in 'multisite mode'
*The number of blogs on your site
*Your 'locale'
*Your WordPress database version number
*Installed and Active Themes
*Installed and Active Plugins

We use data such as the PHP and MySQL version to ensure we maintain WordPress's compatibility with the servers used to run it.

We use the plugin and theme data we collect to provide an estimate of the number of sites using specific themes and plugins and also to provide a breakdown of what versions are in use across the installed sites.

We collect this data with every check, so usually every 12 hours and we store it for 48 hours. It is only accessible by staff at WordPress.org.

In using WordPress you accept that we collect this data from your sites, if you are not willing to share this information you will need to find a plugin to turn off update checks (which is a security risk).

Page created as per https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/16778

[[Category:New page created]]