{{Languages|
{{en|Metadata API}}
{{ja|Metadata API}}
}}

== Overview ==

The '''Metadata API''' is a simple and standarized way for retrieving and manipulating metadata of various WordPress object types.  Metadata for an object is a represented by a simple key-value pair.  Objects may contain multiple metadata entries that share the same key and differ only in their value.

== Function Reference ==

{| cellspacing="10" width="100%"
|- valign="top"
| width="50%" |

{| class="widefat"
|- style="background:#464646; color:#d7d7d7;"
! '''Add/Delete Metadata'''
|-
|
* <tt>[[Function Reference/add metadata | add_metadata()]]</tt>
* <tt>[[Function Reference/delete metadata | delete_metadata()]]</tt>
|}

| width="50%" |

{| class="widefat"
|- style="background:#464646; color:#d7d7d7;"
! '''Get/Update Metadata'''
|-
|
* <tt>[[Function Reference/get metadata | get_metadata()]]</tt>
* <tt>[[Function Reference/update metadata | update_metadata()]]</tt>
|}
|}

== Database Requirements ==

This function assumes that a dedicated MySQL table exists for the $meta_type you specify. Some desired $meta_types do not come with pre-installed WordPress tables, and so they must be created manually. 

=== Default Meta Tables ===

Assuming a prefix of '''<code>wp_</code>''', WordPress's included meta tables are:

; <tt>wp_commentmeta</tt> : Metadata for specific comments.
; <tt>wp_postmeta</tt> : Metadata for pages, posts, and all other post types.
; <tt>wp_usermeta</tt> : Metadata for users.

=== Meta Table Structure ===

To store data for meta types not included in the above table list, a new table needs to be created. All meta tables require four columns... 

; meta_id : <tt>BIGINT(20)</tt>, <tt>unsigned</tt>, <tt>auto_increment</tt>, <tt>not null</tt>, primary key.
; object_id : <tt>BIGINT(20)</tt>, <tt>unsigned</tt>, <tt>not null</tt>. Replace ''object'' with the singular name of the content type being used. For instance, this column might be named <tt>post_id</tt> or <tt>term_id</tt>. Although this column is used like a foreign key, it should not be defined as one.
; meta_key : <tt>VARCHAR(255)</tt>
; meta_value : <tt>LONGTEXT</tt>

== Source File ==

* <tt>Metadata API</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/meta.php}}.

== Related ==

{{Metadata API}}

[[Category:Advanced Topics]]
[[Category:WordPress Development]]
[[Category:API]]
[[Category:WordPress Database]]