{{Languages|
{{en|FAQ Installation}}
{{it|Domande frequenti sull’installazione di WordPress}}
{{nl|Installatie FAQ}}
{{pt-br|FAQ Instalação}}
{{ja|FAQ/インストール}}
{{th|FAQ Installation}}
{{zh-cn|安装的常见问题}}
}}

{{nl:Stub}}
'''''Terug naar de [[nl:Startpagina | Startpagina]]'''''

__TOC__


== Installatie ==
===Hoe installeer ik WordPress?===
Zie:
* [[nl:Installatie]]

===Wat is de Beroemde 5-Minuten Installatie? ===
Zie:
* [[nl:Installatie#nl:Installatie#De_Beroemde_5_Minuten_Setup|De Beroemde 5-Minuten Installatie]]

===Hoe vind ik een goede webhost voor mijn WordPress weblog?===
Zie:
* [[nl:Hosting WordPress]]

===Hoe installeer ik met CPanel / CPanel X?===
Zie:
* [[cPanel_X]] (engels)

===Hoe configureer ik het 'wp-config.php' bestand?===
Zie:
* [[Editing_wp-config.php]] (engels)

===Wat zijn de vereisten om WordPress te installeren?===
Zie:
* [[nl:Hosting WordPress]] en de [http://wordpress.org/about/requirements/ vereisten op WordPress.org]

===Hoe krijg in WordPress in mijn eigen taal?===
Zie:
* [[WordPress Localization]] (engels) en voor het Nederlands: [[nl:WordPress in het Nederlands]]

===Heb ik een database nodig?===

WordPress vereist dat je [[Glossary#MySQL|MySQL database]] database hebt om informatie op  te slaan. Dus ja, je hebt een database nodig.

Je kan een database aanmaken wanneer:
#Je er nog geen hebt.
#Je een aparte database voor je blog wilt en je een aardige webhost hebt die je toestaat om meerdere databases te hebben.

Het is niet essentieel om voor elke WordPress weblog een nieuwe database te hebben.

*Als je dezelfde database voor meerdere WordPress installaties gebruikt, zorg er dan voor dat er in elk '[[Editing wp-config.php|wp-config.php]]' bestand een unieke prefix staat.
*Als je een nieuwe database opzet voor een blog, verander dan het '[[Editing wp-config.php|wp-config.php]]' bestand zodat de database gegevens juist zijn.

Zie ook:
* [[Installation#Detailed_Instructions|Installation, Detailed Instructions]] (engels)

===Wat houdt de 403 error in die ik krijg als ik mijn site bezoek?===
'''Symptomen:''' Je kan niet op je adminaccount inloggen nadat je de juiste gebruikersnaam en wachtwoord hebt gebruikt. Je krijgt een foutbericht zoals:

<pre> You are not authorized to view this page
 You might not have permission to view this
 directory or page using the credentials you 
 supplied. If you believe you should be able 
 to view this directory or page, please try 
 to contact the Web site by using any e-mail 
 address or phone number that may be listed 
 on the personal.fredsmith.com home page. 
 You can click Search to look for information
 on the Internet. HTTP Error 403 - Forbidden''</pre>

'''Oplossing:''' Als de webhost een Windows server is, kan er een probleem zijn met de 'Directory Indexes'. De standaard configuratie van de Windows server is om <tt>index.htm</tt>, <tt>index.html</tt>, <tt>default.htm</tt>, <tt>default.html</tt> of <tt>default.asp</tt> te laden.

WordPress is gemaakt in PHP, de indexpagina is <tt>index.php</tt>. Dit is dus geen onderdeel van de standaard configuratie van de server, we moeten het dus toevoegen. Om dit te doen klik je op '''Web Options''' in het '''Control Panel'''. Vervolgens scroll je naar de '''Directory Indexes''' sectie om <tt>index.php</tt> aan de '''Directory Indexes''' toe te voegen.

Neem eventueel contact op met je webhost voor hulp.

===Kan ik de WordPress map hernoemen?===
Als je WordPress nog niet geïnstalleerd hebt, kun je de map hernoemen naar wat je maar wilt.

Als je WordPress al wel geïnstalleerd hebt en je wilt de map hernoemen, log in op het admin account en verander de volgende instellingen in [[Administration_Panels##Settings|Instellingen]] > [[Administration_Panels#General|Algemeen]]:

* WordPress adres(URI):
* Weblog adres (URI):

Als je dit gedaan hebt, kun je ook de map met de WordPress bestanden veranderen. 

Zie ook:
* [[Moving WordPress|Moving Wordpress]] (engels)

===Hoe reset ik mijn wachtwoord?===
Zie:
* [[Resetting Your Password]] (engels) en http://www.tamba2.org.uk/wordpress/phpmyadmin (engels)

===Waarom is mijn uploadmap "C:apachehtdocswordpress"?===
Toen je het uploadpad opgaf, gebruikte je 'backslashes'.

Gebruik in plaats daarvan de voorwaartse slashes "/" om het uploadpad op te geven.

===Kan ik WordPress installeren op Windows 2000?===
Gebruik '''GEEN''' [[Glossary#MySQL|MySQL database]] versie 4.1.7 als je WordPress wilt installeren op het Windows platform. Lees ook deze post van het engelse forum:

Zie ook:
* [[FAQ_Installation#Can_I_install_WordPress_on_Windows_2000.3F|Can I install WordPress on Windows 2000?]] (engels)

<!-- BEGIN VAN DE ENGELSE TEKST. VERPLAATS DEZE REGEL STEEDS TOT ONDER HET LAATSTE VERTAALDE STUK!

==Advanced Installation==

===How do I install WordPress with the files in different directories?===
This also answers the questions:

*How can I have my blog in one folder but my index at root?
*How can I have people see my blog at www.example.com but keep all the files in <nowiki>www.example.com/wordpress</nowiki>?
*How do I install WordPress in a different directory than where the index.php resides?

Zie ook:
* [[Giving_WordPress_Its_Own_Directory|Giving WordPress Its Own Directory]]
* [[Moving WordPress]]

===How can I hide my blog from people?===
Whether you are testing a new version of WordPress, setting up a new blog or have some other reason to limit access, the following information may help you keep unwanted visitors out.

'''Apache'''

There is no guaranteed way to do this. You can use the '''.htaccess''' file (which also contains your permalink code) to check for certain IP addresses and prevent them from viewing your site. This will only stop the IP address, not the person, so if they have access to an allowed IP address, they can get to your page. One tutorial for this is located at [http://www.clockwatchers.com/htaccess_intro.html  Clockwatchers.com]

An '''.htaccess''' file can also be used to prevent others from "hot-linking" to your images (bandwidth theft) or to set up a password protected blog.

'''Apache Basic Authentication'''

To require a password to access your site using '''.htaccess''' and '''.htpasswd''': [http://www.clockwatchers.com/htaccess_password.html  Clockwatchers.com .htpasswd].

Tools that help you create the files necessary to password protect your site:  [http://www.clockwatchers.com/htaccess_tool.html  Clockwatchers.com .htaccess And .htpasswd Tools]

''Note:'' When your site is accessed the password is encoded weakly using Base64 and can be easily intercepted and decoded.

'''Windows IIS Basic Authentication'''

To require a password if your site is hosted on IIS, you can deselect Allow Anonymous Access and select Basic Authentication. You'll also need to have a username with a password.

''Note:'' When your site is accessed the password is encoded weakly using Base64 and can be easily intercepted and decoded.

Zie:
* [http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=kb;en-us;310344  Microsoft Support - How To Configure IIS 5.0 Web Site Authentication]
* [http://support.microsoft.com/kb/299970/EN-US/  Microsoft Support - How To Use NTFS Security to Protect a Web Page]
* [http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=kb;en-us;308160  Microsoft Support - HOW TO: Configure Internet Information Services Web Authentication]

'''Search Engines: Spiders and Bots'''

Search Engines will index your site and cache your content.  If you do not want this to happen, use a file called '''robots.txt'''. More details can be found at [http://www.searchengineworld.com/robots/robots_tutorial.htm  SearchEngineWorld.com]

===How can I solve login problems?===
Zie:
* [[Login Trouble]]
* [http://faq.wordpress.net/view.php?p=68 How I solve login problems after installation with version 1.2 ?]

==FTP==
===How do I FTP?===
Zie:
* [[Using FileZilla]] and [[FTP Clients]]

===How do I use Filezilla?===
Zie:
* [[Using FileZilla]]

===How do I upload the files and folders?===
Zie:
* [[Uploading WordPress to a remote host]]

===How do I CHMOD files?===
Zie:
* [[Changing File Permissions]]

==MySQL==
===Do I really need MySQL?===
You certainly need the [[Glossary#MySQL|MySQL]] database server to power your WordPress blog. In fact, WordPress only supports the [[Glossary#MySQL|MySQL]] database server.  Listed are the PHP and MySQL requirements:

{{Server requirements}}

===Can I use a database other than MySQL?===
Other databases are not supported at the moment.

There are several other excellent database storage engines, such as PostgreSQL and SQLite that WordPress is interested in supporting in the future. Supporting multiple databases is trickier than it sounds and is not under active development, although there are plenty of architectural discussions about the best approach to take.  Approaches for increasing the number of supported databases are discussed at [[Using Alternative Databases]].  There is a PostgreSQL port of WordPress available called [http://wordpress-pg.sourceforge.net/ WordPress-Pg].

===Why does WordPress use MySQL?===
[[Glossary#MySQL|MySQL]] is extremely fast. It is also the most widely available database server in the world. Open-source and free, [[Glossary#MySQL|MySQL]] is supported by thousands of low-cost [[Glossary#Linux|Linux]] (and Windows!) hosts, which means a very low barrier to entry for anyone wanting to start a WordPress (or database-driven) website. [http://www.mysql.com/documentation/ MySQL's documentation] is useful, cogent and thorough. (Note: it may be intimidating if you are new to all this.) Add to all that the fact that users are able to directly manipulate [[Glossary#MySQL|MySQL]] with [[phpMyAdmin]], developed expressly for that purpose, and it is obvious that [[Glossary#MySQL|MySQL]] is the best choice. Of course, WordPress insists on the best.

== PHP ==
===What is phpMyAdmin?===
phpMyAdmin is a tool written in PHP intended to handle the administration of MySQL over the Web. 

Zie:
* [[phpMyAdmin]]

===Do I need to know PHP to use WordPress ?===
No. The only time you would modify your WordPress blog with [[Glossary#PHP|PHP]] would be when integrating some of the [[Plugins|plugins]]. In most cases clear instructions are given within a text file that accompanies the [[Plugins|plugin]]. Other than that, you would not be changing any of the PHP files. 

Zie:
* [http://faq.wordpress.net/view.php?p=31 Do I need to know PHP to use WordPress?]

===Will Wordpress run in PHP Safe Mode?===
Most definitely! There are no known issues with any version of WordPress when [[Glossary#PHP|PHP]] is running in Safe Mode.

===Do I really need PHP?===
You certainly need [[Glossary#PHP|PHP]] (version 4.1 or newer) to power your WordPress blog. [[Glossary#PHP|PHP]] is the scripting language that drives all of WordPress, and without [[Glossary#PHP|PHP]], your server will not be able to interpret the pages that create your weblog. 

===How do I find out which version of PHP I have?===
To get information about your server, you can use the [http://php.net/phpinfo ''phpinfo()''] function.  This will also give you information about your [[Glossary#Apache|Apache]] and [[Glossary#PHP|PHP]] version and [[Glossary#mod_rewrite| mod_rewrite]].

Zie: 
* [[Finding Server Info]]

== Importing ==
===How can I import posts from my current weblog which uses a different blogging tool?===
Zie:
* [[Importing Content]]

===How do I import from b2?===
Zie:
* [[Importing_Content#b2|Importing from b2]]

===How do I import from Movable Type MT?===
Zie:
* [[Importing from Movable Type to WordPress]]

===How do I import from Blogger?===
Zie:
* [[Importing_Content#Blogger|Importing from Blogger]]

===How do I import from Text Pattern?===
Zie:
* [[Importing_Content#Textpattern|Importing from Text Pattern]]

===How do I import from a generic RSS Feed?===
Zie:
* [[Importing_Content#Importing_from_an_RSS_feed|Importing from an RSS feed]]

===How do I import from other blogging software?===
Zie:
* [[Importing Content]]

==Upgrading==

===What version of WordPress do I have?===

There are several methods to find out what version of WordPress you are using:

* In your <tt>wp-includes</tt> folder of your WordPress installation, open the <tt>version.php</tt> file with any [[Glossary#Text editor|text editor]]. It will tell you the version number of your installation.
* In the WordPress [[Administration Panels]], on any panel look at the bottom of the screen and the version number will be visible.
* Some Themes include the version number in the footer template. Or you can add it yourself:

<pre><?php bloginfo('version'); ?></pre>

===What should I do when I want to upgrade WordPress to the latest version?===

Zie:
* [[Upgrading WordPress]]

===How do I back up my database?===
Zie:
* [[Backing Up Your Database]]

===How do I restore my database?===
Zie:
* [[Restoring Your Database From Backup]]

===After running upgrade.php get the message "It doesn't look like you've installed WP yet. Try running install.php."===
After running the [[Upgrading WordPress|WordPress Upgrade]], and clicking on the "Have fun . ." link, it says, "It doesn't look like you've installed WP yet. Try running install.php."   The problem may be that there is not a user with [[Roles_and_Capabilities#Administrator|administrative capabilities]].  

To fix that, use [[phpMyAdmin]] to manually give a user those capabilities: 
# First find the ''ID'' of the user you want to make administrator by looking in the [[Database_Description#Table:_wp_user|wp_user table]].  
#In the [[Database_Description#Table:_wp_usermeta|wp_usermeta table]], for that ''ID'', find the related ''user_id'', and where the ''meta_key'' is ''wp_capabilites'', change the ''meta_value'' to '''a:1:{s:13:"administrator";b:1;}'''.  
#In that same table, for that ''user_id'', where the ''meta_key'' is ''wp_user_level'', change the ''meta_value'' to a '''10'''.  

Please note that the prefix on those tables and those two meta_keys utilize your database prefix.  So if your database prefix is '''mywp_''' then the two tables will be '''mywp_user''' and '''mywp_usermeta''' and the the two meta_keys will be '''mywp_capabilities''' and '''mywp_user_level'''.

Zie:
*[http://wordpress.org/support/topic/62694?replies=20 WordPress Support Forum Thread from March 2006]

===How do you force a database upgrade?===

Under certain situations, it may be necessary to cause a database to pass through the upgrade process again.  To do that, you need to lower the '''db_version''' value in the wp_options table that corresponds to the version you want to upgrade '''from'''.  For instance, if you want to force the datebase upgrade that happens from 2.0.11 to 2.3 you would change your '''db_version''' to '''3441'''.  To force an upgrade from 2.5 to 2.8, change that value to '''7558'''.

<pre>
'''db_version''' for WordPress releases:
3.0.4  = 15477
3.0.3  = 15477
3.0.2  = 15477
3.0.1  = 15477
3.0    = 15260
2.9.2  = 12329
2.9.1  = 12329
2.9    = 12329
2.8.6  = 11548
2.8.5  = 11548
2.8.4  = 11548
2.8.3  = 11548
2.8.2  = 11548
2.8.1  = 11548
2.8    = 11548
2.7.1  = 9872
2.7    = 9872
2.6.5  = 8204
2.6.3  = 8204
2.6.2  = 8204
2.6.1  = 8204
2.6    = 8201
2.5.1  = 7796
2.5    = 7558
2.3.3  = 6124
2.3.2  = 6124
2.3.1  = 6124
2.3    = 6124
2.2.3  = 5183
2.2.x  = 5183
2.2    = 5183
2.1.3  = 4773
2.1.x  = 4773
2.1    = 4772
2.0.11 = 3441
2.0.x  = 3441
2.0    = 3441
1.5.x  = 2541
1.x    = 2540
</pre>

Note: Use [[phpMyAdmin]] to change that value, or use ''wp-admin/options.php''.

Once the '''db_version''' is changed, when logging into your blog a link to upgrade the database will be offered.

===Do I need to deactivate plugins before using the core update option?===
In the past one of the upgrade procedures called for deactivating all plugins, but with the core upgrade process released with [[Version 2.7]] you do not need to deactive the plugins.  Here's Ryan Boren's explanation as to why:  

''During the upgrade, your blog is put in maintenance mode and loading is halted at the beginning of wp-settings.php.  Nothing really runs, including plugins.  The only thing  allowed to run is the DB upgrade, which takes care of making sure plugins are not loaded.  You don't need to deactivate plugins unless you like turning them back on one-by-one after upgrading to isolate any breakage they might cause.''

===The core upgrade is not working, what can I do?===
If the core upgrade, for example upgrading from 2.7 to 2.71, is not working, one of these solutions might help:
# If the upgrade seems in an endless loop and you are using Memcache object cache backend, upgrade Memcache (see [http://trac.wordpress.org/ticket/8407 Trac Ticket 8407]).
# If upgrading fails due to a restrictive suexec (e.g. some Italian hosts) then try the [[Editing_wp-config.php#Override_of_default_file_permissions|FS_CHMOD_DIR and FS_CHMOD_FILE in wp-config.php]] see [http://trac.wordpress.org/ticket/8478 Trac Ticket 8478]).

EINDE VAN ENGELSE TEKST. LAAT DEZE REGEL STAAN TOTDAT ALLES IS VERTAALD -->

<!--[[FAQ|Back to FAQ]]-->

<!-- ONDERSTAANDE REGEL LATEN STAAN TOTDAT ALLES IS VERTAALD -->
[[FAQ_Installation|Bekijk tijdelijk de engelse installatie FAQ voor een uitgebreidere FAQ]]

'''''Terug naar de [[nl:Startpagina | Startpagina]]'''''

[[Category:Dutch Codex|I]]