{{Languages|
{{en|Options_API}}
{{es|Options_API}}
{{ja|Options_API}}
{{ru|API_параметров}}
}}

== Overview ==

The '''Options API''' is a simple and standardized way of storing data in the database. The API makes it easy to create, access, update, and delete options. All the data is stored in the <tt>[[Database_Description#Table:_wp_options|wp_options]]</tt> table under a given custom name. This page contains the technical documentation needed to use the Options API.
A list of default options can be found in the [[Option Reference]].

Note that the '''_site_''' functions are essentially the same as their counterparts.  The only differences occur for WP Multisite, when the options apply network-wide and the data is stored in the <tt>[[Database_Description#Table:_wp_sitemeta|wp_sitemeta]]</tt> table under the given custom name.

== Function Reference ==

{| cellspacing="10" width="100%"
|- valign="top"
| width="50%" |

{| class="widefat"
|- style="background:#464646; color:#d7d7d7;"
! '''Add/Delete Option'''
|-
|
* <tt>[[Function Reference/add option | add_option()]]</tt>
* <tt>[[Function Reference/delete option | delete_option()]]</tt>
* <tt>[[Function Reference/add site option | add_site_option()]]</tt>
* <tt>[[Function Reference/delete site option | delete_site_option()]]</tt>
|}

| width="50%" |

{| class="widefat"
|- style="background:#464646; color:#d7d7d7;"
! '''Get/Update Option'''
|-
|
* <tt>[[Function Reference/get option | get_option()]]</tt>
* <tt>[[Function Reference/update option | update_option()]]</tt>
* <tt>[[Function Reference/get site option | get_site_option()]]</tt>
* <tt>[[Function Reference/update site option | update_site_option()]]</tt>
|}
|}

== Example ==

 // Create an option to the database
 add_option( $option, $value = '', $deprecated = '', $autoload = 'yes' );
 
 // Removes option by name.
 delete_option( $option );
 
 // Fetch a saved option
 get_option( $option, $default = false );
 
 // Update the value of an option that was already added.
 update_option( $option, $newvalue );

[[Category:Advanced Topics]]
[[Category:WordPress Development]]
[[Category:API]]
[[Category:WordPress Database]]