__TOC__
'''''A picture says more than a thousand words.'''''<br />
Images can be displayed in many ways in WordPress, from simple usages to complex galleries, to even mostly wordless PhotoBlogs. Let's look at some of the different options for PhotoBlogs and Gallery scripts.

== PhotoBlogs ==

PhotoBlogs are different from normal blogs. Normal blogs put the emphasis on the words with only the occasional image featured.  PhotoBlogs are all about the images and not the words. 

The easiest way to get started with photoblogging on WordPress is to either install Johannes Jarolim's [http://johannes.jarolim.com/blog/wordpress/yet-another-photoblog/ YAPB (yet another photo blog) plugin].

YAPB adds all of the functionality of a standard photo blog directly to WordPress with a minimum of configuration. It includes automatic image resizing, exif data, and other tools. 
Johannes' site has links to [http://johannes.jarolim.com/blog/wordpress/yet-another-photoblog/ready-to-use-templates/ themes already incorporating YAPB], otherwise you can [http://johannes.jarolim.com/blog/wordpress/yet-another-photoblog/adapting-templates/ make your own].

PhotoQ takes a slightly different approach, it gives you a queue which you can fill with photos to be posted on your photoblog. PhotoQ is geared to batch processing of photos and it features batch uploads, automatic image resizing, exif support, watermarking and automatic posting via cronjobs among other features. PhotoQ [http://www.whoismanu.com/blog/2009/08/photoq-wordpress-photoblog-plugin-1-8-now-supporting-thousands-of-themes/ works with most WordPress themes] without adaptation and includes an [http://www.whoismanu.com/photoq-wordpress-photoblog-plugin/#views auto-configuration option for some of the most popular photo centric themes].  

=== PhotoBlog Resources ===

*[http://johannes.jarolim.com/yapb Yet Another Photoblog Wordpress Plugin]

== Gallery Scripts & Plugins ==

There are many PHP and Javascripts available that will allow you to create and manage online galleries on your WordPress site.  Here are just a few that have been successfully integrated with WordPress. As of [[Version 2.5]], WordPress has included a gallery function using the [[Gallery_Shortcode|[gallery] shortcode]].
<!-- Please keep this list in alphabetical order -->

* [http://wordpress.org/plugins/flash-album-gallery/ GRAND Flash Album Gallery] - multi category flash skin based photo gallery with powerful admin. 
* [http://wordpress.org/plugins/jetpack/ Jetpack] With Jetpack's Carousel active, any standard WordPress galleries you have embedded in posts or pages will launch a full-screen photo browsing experience with comments and EXIF metadata
* [http://wordpress.org/plugins/lazyest-gallery/ Lazyest Gallery] Automatically includes galleries uploaded by ftp
* [https://wordpress.org/plugins/simple-photo-gallery/ Modula Image Gallery] Photo Gallery by Modula – an advanced solution for Photo Gallery users. Create beautiful image galleries in minutes or less.
* [http://wordpress.org/plugins/nextgen-gallery/ NextGEN Gallery]
* [http://wordpress.org/plugins/photospace/ Photospace Gallery] Uses the Galleriffic script to generate a clean jQuery powered gallery. See the plugin [http://thriveweb.com.au/the-lab/wordpress-gallery-plugin-photospace-2/ home page]  for more 
* [http://wordpress.org/plugins/wp-isell-photo/ WP iSell Photo] Extends the WordPress photo gallery by adding a "Buy Now" button for each image. 
* [https://wordpress.org/plugins/simple-photo-gallery/ Simple Photo Gallery] is an effective, reliable, yet simple to use photo gallery plugin.

[[Category:Design and Layout]]
[[Category:Advanced Topics]]