{{Languages|
{{en|Podcasting}}
{{ja|Podcasting}}
}}

== What Is Podcasting? ==

Podcasting is distributing audio or video content via [[Glossary#RSS|RSS 2.0]], or  [[Glossary#Atom|Atom]]. Podcast clients such as [http://www.itunes.com/ iTunes], [http://juicereceiver.sourceforge.net/index.php Juice], or [http://www.castpodder.net/ CastPodder(linux)] allow listeners to subscribe to your RSS/Atom feed and automatically download your content to their portable audio players as it becomes available.

'''How It Works'''

# Create audio or video that you want to share (usually MP3 or MP4)
# Upload the file to a server
# Link to the file in a post in your weblog
# WordPress automatically Includes a link to the file in your RSS/Atom feed
# Listeners "subscribe" with podcast client application to your RSS/Atom feed and download new files automatically.

WordPress creates all the necessary links.

== Using WordPress For Podcasting ==

Podcasting is seamlessly supported as of WordPress 1.5. Add a link to an audio file in a post and WordPress will automatically add the necessary enclosure tag to your RSS2 feed to make it useable as a podcast.

'''''Important:''' Use a complete, absolute URI when linking to the audio file.'' Otherwise WordPress will not make an enclosure for it.

 '''Wrong:''' &lt;a href="'''my-podcast.mp3'''">My podcast&lt;/a>
  
 '''Right:''' &lt;a href="'''<nowiki>http://example.com/my-podcast.mp3</nowiki>'''">My podcast&lt;/a>

To create a subscription or to syndicate your podcast, add your RSS feed link on the site and to your iTunes and other syndication accounts. 

 <nowiki>http://example.com/wordpress/?feed=rss2</nowiki>

If you're using an Atom feed:

 <nowiki>http://example.com/wordpress/?feed=atom</nowiki>

To make life easier for iTunes users, consider also linking to your podcast feed with the itpc:// protocol rather than http, e.g.:

 <nowiki>itpc://domain.org/path/?feed=atom</nowiki>

iTunes users will then be able  to subscribe to your feed with a single click.

'''Notes:'''

# As of WordPress 1.5, this '''only''' works for ''posts'' but not for static ''pages''.
# Make sure the linked file is accessible when you publish your post.  Otherwise, WordPress won't be able to collect the information it needs from the linked files.
# If you change a linked file, republish the post so WordPress can update its file size information about the file.
# Occasionally, you may have to put .xml at the end of the RSS/Atom url, for it to properly work.
# To get WordPress to recognize m4a and m4b files as podcasts, you need to make sure that your web server is configured to serve them with the right content-type. Do this by adding the following directives to your Apache configuration file or .htaccess file:

 <nowiki>AddType audio/x-m4a .m4a
AddType audio/x-m4b .m4b</nowiki>

==Dedicated Podcasts==

To create a dedicated podcast feed:

# Create a category for your audio files and call "podcasts" or something similar.
# Assign every post containing an audio link to your "podcasts" category.
# If your blog is at example.com, your podcast feed will automatically be available at:
 <nowiki>http://example.com/wordpress/?feed=rss2&category_name=podcasts</nowiki>

Optionally, add this to the .htaccess file to make a nice rewrite rule that points visitors directly to your podcasts (assumes you've categorised your podcasts as 'podcasts' as in the example above):

 <nowiki>#podcast rewrite
RewriteRule ^podcasts/?$ /yourWPsubdirectoryhere/index.php?category_name=podcasts [QSA,L]
RewriteRule ^podcasts/feed/(atom|rss2)/?$ /yourWPsubdirectoryhere/index.php?feed=$1&category_name=podcasts [QSA,L]</nowiki>

This will show your podcasts feed as <nowiki>http://example.com/podcasts/feed/rss2</nowiki> for RSS2 format, or <nowiki>http://example.com/podcasts/feed/atom</nowiki> for Atom format. (If you don't know the difference between the two, give out the first, as RSS2 is generally a bit better supported).

==Archive.org issues==

Archive.org can be used to host podcast audio files but archive.org uses re-directs on the file paths it publishes - this confuses WordPress, and consequently, the Podcast publication fails (missing enclosure tag error).

To avoid this error, if you are hosting your audio files on archive.org, you need to add a Custom Field called "enclosure" and paste the full url for the mp3 file in the Value field.

== External Links ==

* [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Podcasting Wikipedia on Podcasting]
* [http://wordpress.org/plugins/seriously-simple-podcasting/ Seriously Simple Podcasting WordPress Plugin]
* [http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/powerpress/ Podcasting - Blubrry PowerPress Podcast WordPress Plugin] 

[[Category:Getting Started]]
[[Category:Advanced Topics]]
[[Category:Feeds]]