== Custom Post Type Templates ==

* <tt style="font-weight:bold; color:#036">archive-{post_type}.php</tt>
* <tt style="font-weight:bold; color:#036">single-{post_type}.php</tt>

; archive-{post_type}.php : If your custom post type were 'product', and/or query_var = "product", WordPress would look for <b>archive-product.php</b> to display the archive of posts.
; single-{post_type}.php : If your custom post type were 'product', and/or query_var = "product", WordPress would look for <b>single-product.php</b> to display the single or permalink of the post.

If these files are not available in your Theme's directory WordPress will look for <b>archive.php</b> and <b>single.php</b>, respectively. If even these files are not present it will default to <b>index.php</b>. 
See [http://codex.wordpress.org/Template_Hierarchy Template Hierarchy] for more details.

== Examples ==

Make a copy of the single.php or archive.php file as a starting point. That way they will inherit some of the theme's html structure.  Remember to add the post type name to the file ex. archive-post_type.php.  From there you may want to customize further...

=== Displaying Custom Taxonomies ===

If you are using custom taxonomies with your post type and would like them to display in your template file use [[Function_Reference/the_terms |the_terms()]].

=== Listing Post Type Pages ===

If a given custom post type is hierarchical in nature, then [[Function_Reference/wp_list_pages#List_members_of_a_custom_post_type|wp_list_pages()]] can be used to list the member of that custom post type.

=== Conditional tags for Custom Post Types ===

Fun with conditional statements...
[[Conditional_Tags#A_Post_Type|Conditional tags for Custom Post Types]]

== Related ==

{{Theme Templates}}
{{Tag Footer}}

{{Stub}}
[[Category:Advanced Topics]]