{{Languages|
{{en|Super Admin Menu}}
{{ja|?????/?????????}}
{{pt-br|Painel da Rede}}
}}
{{Comunidade WP-Brasil}}
{{Avançado}}
__NOTOC__
O '''Painel da Rede''' is the central access point to the various options necessary to administer the [[Glossary#Multisite|Multisite (or Network)]] capabilities of WordPress.  The information below is directed specifically for Network Administrators.  Other users should see [[Administration Panels]] for information on using WordPress.

The Network Admin link is only visible after you [[Create A Network]]. The menu will appear in the upper right of the menu bar, and is only visible to super admins. It has been moved to a separate location with the admin area, and is available from the admin area of any site, as long as you are logged in as the super admin user.

When visiting Network Admin you will see Dashboard screen. This looks similar to a site dashboard, with one additional widget, and the site specific widgets removed.  The Right Now widget has quick links to the Create a Site and Create a users screens, as well as search boxes to quickly find sites and users.

Each screen is accessed via the main navigation menu, is presented in the boxes below.  The links in those boxes will lead you to sections of this article describing those screens.  From those sections, you can navigate to articles detailing more information about each screen.  Also, [[WordPress_Screenshots#Multisite|WordPress Screenshots]] shows examples of all the screens.

{| cellspacing=10 width="100%"
|- valign="top"

| bgcolor="#fff3f3" style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; color: black;" width="20%"|
[[#Network Admin|Network Admin]]
*[[#Admin|Admin]]
*[[#Writing|Sites]]
*[[#Users|Users]]
*[[#Themes|Themes]]
*[[#Plugins|Plugins]]
*[[#Settings|Settings]]
*[[#Updates|Updates]]

| bgcolor="#fff3f3" style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; color: black;" width="20%"|
[[#Dashboard|Dashboard]]
*[[#My Sites|My Sites]]

| bgcolor="#fff3f3" style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; color: black;" width="20%"|
[[#Tools|Tools]]
*[[#Delete Site|Delete Site]]
*[[#Network|Network]]
|}

<div style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; background-color: #fff3f3; margin-left: 1em; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; float: right; width:8em;">
'''Screens'''<br />
[[Network_Admin_SubPanel|Admin]]<br />
[[Network_Admin_Sites_SubPanel|Sites]]<br />
[[Network_Admin_Users_SubPanel|Users]]<br />
[[Network_Admin_Themes_SubPanel|Themes]]<br />
[[Network_Admin_Plugins_SubPanel|Plugins]]<br />
[[Network_Admin_Settings_SubPanel|Settings]]<br />
[[Network_Admin_Updates_SubPanel|Updates]]<br />
</div>

==Network Admin - Controlling a Multisite Network Environment==
This is control central for managing a Multisite Network Environment.  

The following screens help manage a multisite network. 

===Admin===
The [[Network Admin SubPanel]] is the default screen in the Super Admin menu and provides the network administrator with links to the screens for Sites and Users to either create a new site or user, or to search existing users and sites.  

===Sites===
Use the [[Network Admin Sites SubPanel]] to create the various sites that are part of your network.  These sites will be either subdirectory or subdomain sites as determined by how the network was configured.

===Users===
The [[Network Admin Users SubPanel]] is where Super Admin personnel add network users.

===Themes===
The [[Network Admin Themes SubPanel]] allows you to control which themes site administrators can use for each site. It does not activate or deactivate which theme a site is currently using.

If the network admin disables a theme that is in use, it can still remain selected on that site. If another theme is chosen, the disabled theme will not appear in the site’s Appearance > Themes screen.

Themes can be enabled on a site by site basis by the network admin on the Edit Site screen you go to via the Edit action link on the Sites screen.

===Plugins===
The [[Network Admin Plugins SubPanel]] allow you to add new features to your WordPress blog that don't come standard with the default installation.  There are a rich variety of available Plugins for WordPress, and plugin installation and management is a snap.

===Settings===
The [[Network Admin Settings SubPanel]] is where a network admin sets and changes settings for the network as a whole. The first site is the main site in the network and network settings are pulled from that original site’s options.

===Updates===
The [[Network Admin Updates SubPanel]] allows an automated update of the sites in a network.  This should be done only after the network has been updated to a new version of WordPress via the [[Administration_Panels|Administration]] > [[Administration_Panels#Updates|Dashboard]] > [[Dashboard_Updates_SubPanel|Updates]] screen.

[[#top|Back to the Top]]

<div style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; background-color: #fff3f3; margin-left: 1em; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; float: right; width: 8em;">
'''Screens'''<br />
[[Network Dashboard My Sites SubPanel|My Sites]]<br />
</div>

==Dashboard==
The Dashboard gives you access to the My Sites screen.

===My Sites===
The [[Network Dashboard My Sites SubPanel]] shows an individual user all of their sites in this network, and also allows that user to set a primary site. He or she can use the links under each site to visit either the frontend or the dashboard for that site.

[[#top|Back to the Top]]


<div style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; background-color: #fff3f3; margin-left: 1em; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; float: right; width:8em;">
'''Screens'''<br />
[[Network Tools Delete Site SubPanel|Delete Site]]<br />
[[Network Tools Network SubPanel|Network]]<br />
</div>

==Tools==
WordPress Tools provide you the access to the Network setup abilities.

=== Delete Site ===
The [[Network Tools Delete Site SubPanel]] allows to delete your site from network permanently. This menu will appear in only Administration Panel of the additional site.

===Network===
The [[Network Tools Network SubPanel]] allows you to configure a network as having subdomains (site1.example.com) or subdirectories (example.com/site1). Subdomains require wildcard subdomains to be enabled in Apache and DNS records, if your host allows it.
[[Category:Painéis de Administração]]