{{Languages|
{{en|Switching to PHP5}}
{{pt-br|Mudando para o PHP5}}
}}
{{Traduz}}
 __TOC__
Para identificar a versão PHP que seu servidor web está usando, baixe o plugin WordPress [http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/health-check/ Health Check]. Quando ativar o plugin, ele vai dizer se você está pronto para o WordPress 3.2. Se não, contate o seu provedor de hospedagem web e peça para que forneçam suporte para PHP 5. Dicas estão disponíveis abaixo.

=== Compatibilidade: O PHP 5 quebrará Temas e Plugins? ===

Desenvolvedores do WordPress e autores de temas e plugins usam a versão atual do PHP 5.2 se  mantém sempre atualizados com melhorias na tecnologia de codificação. As versões atuais e atualizadas deverão ser compatíveis e você não deverá term problemas quando atualizar o seu  serviço de hospedagem para uma versão PHP recentes, como o PHP 5.2.x ou 5.3.x.

Na verdade, o WordPress funciona melhor em PHP 5 do quem em PHP 4. O PHP 4 é ultrapassado e o WordPress não foi muito testado nesse ambiente por muito tempo (não tanto quanto PHP 5). E para muitos plugins e temas este isso é o mesmo, o PHP 5.2 é suportado agora na maioria dos serviços.

Alguns erros só existem quando você executar o WordPress em PHP 4, mas tais erros não existem quando executado em PHP 5. Nestes casos, o PHP 4 é o problema.

Alguns autores de Plugin e Tema estão trabalhando em versões que são compatíveis apenas com PHP 5 e em suas características e capacidades. Assim, estes nem sequer trabalham com o PHP 4 ou versões mais antigas PHP 5.

Entretanto, os temas mais antigos e plug-ins podem ter código PHP que eventualmente pode não funcionar com todas as cinco versões do PHP . Verifique com os autores de temas e plug-in para saber as necessidades específicas dos plugins que está usando. O PHP 4 está oficialmente terminado em agosto de 2008, isso significa que não possui patches de segurança uma vez. Se o seu plugin não foi atualizado há anos, por favor procure pelas versões atualizadas, ou considere a mudança para uma opção alternativa.

Se você estiver usando código específicos-não-WordPress, tais como JavaScripts, gadgets, widgets, scripts PHP personalizados ou de terceiros, verifique com a fonte original para versões atualizadas. Como PHP 5 é mais compatível com versões anteriores você não deve  ter qualquer problema.

=== Exemplos de Serviços ===

Esta lista tem como objetivo mostrar exemplos de como ocorre a troca para o PHP5 em vários serviço. Esta não é uma lista completa, ou lista oficial. Por favor, verifique com seu provedor de hospedagem para obter informações específicas e atualizadas.

* '''1&1 Alemão''' (Confirmado em [http://hilfe-center.1und1.de/hosting/scripte_datenbanken/php/18.html WebHosting 5.0]) - Para analisar todos os arquivos php em php5, as seguintes linhas de código precisam ser adicionadas ao arquivo <tt>.htaccess</tt> no diretório raiz.

  AddType x-mapp-php5 .php
  AddHandler x-mapp-php5 .php

* '''UOLHost''' (Confirmedo) - Suporta PHP 5 por padrão.

== FAQs on Moving to PHP 5 ==

;Will I have to redo my whole site over? : No, in most cases there would be no need to change anything on your site. If you are running a very old version of WordPress you may see better compatibility from upgrading, but then that's good advise no matter what PHP you're using.
;Can I ask my web host to install PHP 5 or do I have to do it myself? : This will vary from host to host. In some cases, a request via a support ticket will get you an answer from your web host provider. Others will offer the option through your host's control panel. It is usually a simple procedure. 
;What if my web host doesn't offer PHP 5? : Most responsible host providers have already made the switch. Ask if they have plans to introduce PHP5 support. If they are planning to introduce the support soon, then it shouldn't be an issue. If they have no such plans, you might want to look around for alternative providers.
;How much work and time will this take? : If your web host provides the alternative, moving from PHP 4 to PHP 5 should be painless and fast. If there are problems with WordPress Themes, Plugins, and other scripts and PHP code, it could be more work, though most are updated by now. In most cases, though, it is as simple as clicking a button or two and waiting for it to happen.
;How much money will this cost? : Mosts hosts would not charge for providing PHP5. If you have paid for premium WordPress Themes or WordPress Plugins, check the support arrangements for PHP5 versions.
;If my host doesn't upgrade, can I still use WordPress? : As PHP5 only functionality becomes more common, and the possibility that a security flaw will be exploited affecting sites running on the PHP 4 platform, exploits not specific to WordPress, the need for web hosts to upgrade will become critical to providing quality customer support. It is unlikely that many will remain with the older versions. WordPress is working hard to maintain backwards compatibility as long as is feasible. 

== Why Switch to PHP 5 ==

In August 2008 PHP 4 became an end-of-life product. This meant that no further effort would be expended in fixing bugs, improving, or patching security holes found in PHP version 4. Development effort moved to PHP 5. 

Since then, web hosts have gradually been introducing PHP 5 based offerings into their portfolios. Most decent web hosting providers will now allow PHP 5 hosting - though for some it may not be the default. 

Compared to PHP 4, PHP 5 is faster, easier for developers to maintain and code for, and integrates better into web services. Perhaps most importantly, it is also a current, supported, product. 

=== WordPress and PHP 5 ===

Currently WordPress works on both PHP 4 and PHP 5 based platforms. The historic viewpoint has been that WordPress would continue to have a PHP 4 minimum requirement until the user base reached a tipping point in PHP 5 adoption. 

Clearly the WordPress developers cannot continue to code for PHP 4 indefinitely. Current feeling is that many PHP 5 only features may be introduced in WordPress 3.0. Some existing features, such as advanced timezone support, are already in WordPress and rely on capabilities present only in PHP 5.

The change is more likely to be a drift away from PHP 4 than a sudden detour. For example, more people have success with the [[Upgrading_WordPress|Automatic Upgrade]] functionality when they are running on a PHP5 host. 

{{Codex-pt}}
{{DEFAULTSORT:M}}