{{Avançado}}

Seja você um desenvolvedor de temas, plugins ou mesmo esteja migrando um site, é interessante ter como testar suas criações localmente, sem ter que enviá-las para um servidor remoto toda a vez, para isso, você pode instalar o WordPress localmente.

== WAMP, XAMPP ==
Se não tiver [http://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Information_Services IIS] em seu computador ou não quer usá-lo, você pode usar o [http://www.wampserver.com/en/download.php WAMP Server], o [http://sourceforge.net/projects/wampserver/ WAMP Server], ou o [http://bitnami.org/stack/wampstack BitNami WAMPStack], estes aplicativos podem ser baixados e configurarados para executar um web site em seu próprio computador. Especialmente para Mac existe o MAMP.

Esse programas servem para criar servidores independente da plataforma e consistem principalmente na base de dados MySQL, o servidor web Apache e os interpretadores para linguagens de script: PHP e Perl, além do WordPress, você poderá instalar qualquer software que use estas linguagens.

*[http://www.apachefriends.org/pt_br/xampp-windows.html Instalando o XAMPP]
*[http://www.profissionaisti.com.br/2012/03/instalando-apache-php-mysql-no-windows-com-wamp/ Instalando o WAMP]
*[http://www.profissionaisti.com.br/2012/04/instalando-apache-php-mysql-no-mac-os-com-mamp/ Instalando o MAMP] somente para Mac

==WordPress local para Site Web==
Após ter criado um site local, você pode importá-lo para um site web sem problema algum, os passos são os mesmo de importar o WordPress entre servidores:

#[[pt-br:Instalando o WordPress|Instale o WordPress no seu servidor web]], pode ser manualmente ou através das ferramentas do serviço de hospedagem, geralmente você pode escolher entre instalar na raiz do site ou em uma pasta ''blog'' ou ''site''.
#Usando um [[pt-br:Clientes FTP|cliente FTP]] ou o gerenciador de arquivos do serviço de hospedagem, exclua a pasta ''wp-content'' da instalação web e em seguida envie a mesma pasta da sua instalação local. Isso vai manter seu tema e plugins.
#No servidor web, crie um banco de dados vazio com o mesmo nome e senha do banco de dados local, estas informções ficam no arquivo [[pt-br:Editando wp-config.php|<tt>wp-config.php</tt>]].
#[[pt-br:Backups do Banco de Dados#Processo de Backup com o phpMyAdmin|Exporte os dados do banco de dados local]], de prefência em formato .zip.
#Importe o arquivo .zip em seu banco de dados web.
#Acesse a tabela com sufixo </tt>_options</tt> e mude os URLs em ''siteurl'' e ''home'' para o URL de seu site web.
#Tente acessar seu site e observe se consegue acessar os links normamente no site.

;Sites externos
#[http://www.vejaeaprenda.com.br/wordpress/transfira-seu-wordpress-local-para-um-servidor-online-sem-perder-nada/ Transfira seu wordpress ( local ) para um servidor online sem perder nada] (vídeo)
{{Traduz}}

== Software Appliance - Ready-to-Use ==

You may find that using a pre-integrated [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_appliance software appliance] is a great way to get up and running with WordPress, especially in combination with virtual machine software (e.g., VMWare, VirtualBox, Xen HVM, KVM).

A ''software appliance'' allows users to altogether skip manual installation of WordPress and its dependencies, and instead deploy a self-contained system that requires little to no setup, in just a couple of minutes.

* [http://www.turnkeylinux.org/wordpress TurnKey WordPress Appliance]: a free Ubuntu-based  appliance that just works. It bundles a collection of popular WordPress plugins and features a small footprint, automatic security updates, SSL support and a Web administration interface.

* [http://www.bitnami.org/stack/wordpress BitNami WordPress Appliance]: free WordPress appliances based on Ubuntu or Open Suse. Native installer and Cloud images also available.

== Easy 5 Minute WordPress Installation on Windows ==
Download, install, and configure WordPress with the [http://www.microsoft.com/web/gallery/wordpress.aspx Microsoft Web Platform Installer] ([http://www.microsoft.com/web/gallery/wordpress.aspx Web PI]). Installation is very easy and takes on average about 5 minutes to complete.

;Step 1. Things you need to know before starting.
#These steps will work on Windows versions which include IIS, such as Windows XP professional, Windows Vista, Windows 7 and Windows Server.
#You must be able to install programs on your machine (i.e. have administrator rights).
;Step 2. Navigate to the [http://www.microsoft.com/web/gallery/wordpress.aspx WordPress Installation Page]
#Choose the "Install" button.
#If you have [http://www.microsoft.com/web/gallery/wordpress.aspx Web PI] already installed, it will automatically be launched and you can skip to the next step.
#If you do not have the [http://www.microsoft.com/web/gallery/wordpress.aspx Web Platform Installer], you will be prompted to install it.
#[http://www.microsoft.com/web/gallery/wordpress.aspx Web PI] is a tool from Microsoft that downloads and installs the latest components you need to develop or host Web applications on Windows. Everything in the tool is free. [http://www.microsoft.com/web/gallery/wordpress.aspx Web PI] will install and configure IIS, PHP, MySQL and anything else you may need.
;Step 3. Choose to Install WordPress
#When [http://www.microsoft.com/web/gallery/wordpress.aspx Web PI] launches, you will see an information page for WordPress. Start installing WordPress by pressing the "Install" button in the lower right hand corner.
;Step 4. Installation of WordPress and its requirements
#Finding Dependencies: [http://www.microsoft.com/web/gallery/wordpress.aspx Web PI] will determine the minimum set of components and modules you need on your machine to run WordPress. It will only install what you’re missing. For example, PHP will be installed and configured to run WordPress.
#Configure the Database: After accepting the terms, if you need to install MySQL, you will be asked to create a password for the root account database account. Keep this password safe. WordPress will ask for this information later. 
#Choose the site: Choose a site to install WordPress to. You may install to an existing Web site in IIS or create a new site. Use the default setting if you do not have advanced configuration needs.
#WordPress Setup: WordPress will need answers to a few specific questions such as the username (in the case of a new MySQL install is root) and password for your MySQL database to complete the install.
;Step 5. Completion
#Once you enter the WordPress setup information, Web PI will finish the installation. 
#Click, Launch in Browser and WordPress will launch.

Alternatively, the [http://bitnami.org/stack/wordpress BitNami WordPress installer] is a free, self-contained native installer for WordPress that includes Apache, MySQL and PHP so it works out of the box.

== Installing Multiple Blogs ==
Detailed information about [[Installing Multiple Blogs]] is available.

{{Codex-pt}}
{{DEFAULTSORT:I}}