{{Languages|
{{en|Upgrading WordPress Extended}}
{{fr|fr:Details de mise a jour}}
{{ja|WordPress のアップグレード/詳細}}
{{pt-br|Atualização Extendida}}
{{ru|Обновление WordPress (подробно)}}
{{zh-cn|升级 WordPress 进阶}}
}}
{{Comunidade WP-Brasil}}
{{Traduz}}
{{Avançado}}
==Instruções Detalhadas==

===Processo de Atualização===
# [[#Passo 1: Faça backup de seu banco de dados|Faça backup de seu banco de dados]]. Leia [[Backing Up Your Database]] for a detailed explanation.
# [[#Passo 2: Faça backup de todos os arquivos WordPress|Faça backup de todos os arquivos WordPress]] in seu WordPress directory.  Não esqueça seu arquivo [[Glossary#.htaccess<|<tt>.htaccess</tt>]].  
# [[#Passo 3: Verifique seus backups|Verifique seus backups]] you created are there and usable.  This is essential.    
# [[#Passo 4: Desative todos os Plugins|Desative todos os Plugins]].
# [[#Passo 5: Certifique-se de ter feito os 4 passos anteriores|Certifique-se de ter feito os 4 passos anteriores]].  Do not attempt the upgrade unless you have completed the first four Passos.
# [[#Passo 6: Faça download e extraia o pacote WordPress|Faça download e extraia o pacote WordPress ]] do http://wordpress.org/download/. 
# [[#Passo 7: Exclua os arquivos WordPress no seu servidor|Exclua os arquivos WordPress no seu servidor]] on seu site, but '''<span style="color:red">NÃO EXCLUA OS SEGUINTES ARQUIVOS</span>''' 
#*<code><span style="color:red">wp-config.php</span></code> file;
#*<code><span style="color:red">wp-content</span></code> folder;  Special Exception:  the <code>wp-content/cache</code> and the <code>wp-content/plugins/widgets</code> folders should be deleted.
#*<code><span style="color:red">wp-images</span></code> folder;
#*<code><span style="color:red">wp-includes/languages/</span></code> folder--if you are using a language file do not delete that folder;
#*<code><span style="color:red">.htaccess</span></code> file--if you have added custom rules to seu <code>.htaccess</code>, do not delete it;
#*<code><span style="color:red">robots.txt</span></code> file--if seu blog lives in the root of seu site (ie. the blog is the site) and you have created such a file, do not delete it.
# [[#Passo 8: Envie seus novos arquivos|Envie seus novos arquivos]] from seu computer's hard drive to the appropriate WordPress folder on seu site.
# [[#Passo 9: Execute o script de atualização do WordPress|Execute o script de atualização do WordPress]] and follow the instructions on the screen.
# [[#Passo 10: Atualize a estrutura de Links Permanentes e .htaccess|Atualize a estrutura de Links Permanentes e .htaccess]].  Update seu Permalink Structure and merge the custom rules, if necessary, into seu [[Glossary#.htaccess<|<tt>.htaccess</tt>]] file.
# [[#Passo 11: Instale plugins e temas atualizados|Instale plugins e temas atualizados]].  Please review the [[Plugins/Plugin_Compatibility/{{CurrentVersion}}|list of Plugins that work in Version {{CurrentVersion}}]].  Check for [[Themes/Theme_Compatibility/{{CurrentVersion}}|Theme Compatibility with {{CurrentVersion}}]] and ask seu Theme author for any new version.
# [[#Passo 12: Re-ative seus Plugins|Re-ative seus Plugins]]
# [[#Passo 13: Add security key definitions to the wp-config.php file|Add security key definitions to the ''wp-config.php'' file]]
# [[#Passo 14: Review what has changed in WordPress|Review what has changed in WordPress]].

Essa é a visão geral do processo de atualização. Por favor, continue lendo as instruções de atualização detalhadas.  

Remember, if you do encounter problems, re-read the Instructions below to insure you've followed the proper procedures and consult  [[Installing_WordPress#Common_Installation_Problems|Troubleshooting: Common Installation Problems]].

===Detailed Upgrade Instructions for 1.5.x, and versions 2.0 - 2.6.5, to {{CurrentVersion}}===
The following are the instructions that explain the above Passos in more detail.  Please read all of the instructions before starting.

If plan on upgrading across more than two major releases, please consider upgrading incrementally to avoid potential conflicts.  For example, if you plan on upgrading from 2.5 to {{CurrentVersion}}, upgrade to 2.7 first, followed by 2.9, and finally {{CurrentVersion}}.  Older versions of WordPress can be downloaded from the [http://wordpress.org/download/release-archive/ release archive].

====Passo 1: Faça backup de seu banco de dados====
Perform a backup of seu banco de dados.  All of seu WordPress data, such as Users, Posts, Pages, Links, and Categories, are stored in seu [[Glossary#MySQL|MySQL]] [[Database Description|banco de dados]].  Please read [[Backing Up Your Database]] for a detailed explanation of this process. 

It is extremely important to back up seu banco de dados before beginning the upgrade.  If, for some reason, you find it necessary to revert back to the 'old' version of WordPress, you may have to restore seu banco de dados from these backups.

====Passo 2: Faça backup de todos os arquivos WordPress====
Faça backup ALL of seu arquivos in seu WordPress directory and seu [[Glossary#.htaccess<|<tt>.htaccess</tt>]] file.  Typically, this process involves using an [[FTP Clients|FTP program]] to download ALL seu WordPress arquivos from seu host to seu local computer.
Please read [[WordPress_Backups#Backing_Up_Your_WordPress_Site|Backing Up Your WordPress Site]] for further explanation.

If you have made changes to any core WordPress arquivos, or if you've got customized Plugins or Themes, you will want to have a good backup of those arquivos.  It is extremely important to back up seu arquivos before beginning the upgrade.  If for some reason you find it necessary to revert back to the 'old' version of WordPress you will need to upload these arquivos.

====Passo 3: Verifique seus backups====
Verify that the backups you created are there and usable.  '''This is the most important Passo in the upgrade process!'''  
The verification process involves making sure you can see the backup arquivos on seu local computer (or wherever you've stored them) and that you can navigate into any sub-folders.  If the arquivos are in a zip file, make sure you can open the zip file.  Also consider opening a ''.sql'' file in an [[Glossary#Text editor|editor]] to see if the tables and data are represented.

====Passo 4: Desative todos os Plugins====
In seu [[Administration Panels|Administration panel]], under the Plugins choice, deactivate any Plugins.  Because of the changes to WordPress, some Plugins may conflict with the upgrade process.

====Passo 5: Certifique-se de ter feito os 4 passos anteriores====
If you have not completed the first four procedures, STOP, and do them!  Do not attempt the upgrade unless you have completed the first four Passos.  

The best resource for problems with seu upgrade is the [http://wordpress.org/support/ WordPress Support Forums], and if you have problems, the volunteers at the [http://wordpress.org/support/ WordPress Support Forums] will likely ask if you have completed the first four Passos.

====Passo 6: Faça download e extraia o pacote WordPress ====
Download and unzip the WordPress package from http://wordpress.org/download/.
* If you will be uploading WordPress to a remote web server, download the WordPress package to seu computer with seu favorite web browser and unzip the package.
* If you have [[Glossary#Shell|shell]] access to seu web server, and are comfortable using console-based tools, you may wish to download WordPress directly to seu [[Glossary#Web server|web server]]. You can do so using <tt>wget</tt> , <tt>lynx</tt> or another console-based web browser, which are valuable if you want to avoid [[Glossary#FTP|FTPing]]. Place the package in a directory parallel to seu current wordpress directory (like "uploads," for example). Then, unzip it using: <tt>gunzip -c wordpress-{{CurrentVersion}}.tar.gz | tar -xf -</tt> or by using: <tt>tar -xzvf latest.tar.gz </tt> 

The WordPress package will be extracted into a folder called <tt>wordpress</tt>.

====Passo 7: Exclua os arquivos WordPress no seu servidor====
'''Why Delete?''' Generally, it is a good idea to delete whatever is possible because the uploading (or upgrading through cPanel) process may not correctly overwrite an existing file and that may cause problems later.

'''<span style="color:red">DO NOT DELETE</span> these folders and arquivos:''' 
*<code>wp-config.php</code> file;
*<code>wp-content</code> folder;
*<code>wp-images</code> folder--only older installations from 1.5.x days will have this folder;
*<code>wp-includes/languages/</code> folder--if you are using a language file, and it is here rather than in <tt>wp-content/languages/</tt>, do not delete this folder (you might want to move seu language arquivos to <tt>wp-content/languages/</tt> for easier upgrading in the future);.
*<code>.htaccess</code> file--if you have added custom rules to seu <code>.htaccess</code>, do not delete it;
*Custom Content and/or Plugins--if you have any images or other custom content or Plugins inside the <code>wp-content</code> folder, do NOT delete them.

'''Delete these Files and Folders:'''
*<code>wp-* (except for those above), readme.html, wp.php, xmlrpc.php, and license.txt; </code> arquivos; Typically arquivos in seu root or wordpress folder.  Again, don't delete the <code>wp-config.php</code> file. '''Note''': some arquivos such as wp.php may not exist in later versions such as 2.7.
*<code>wp-admin</code> folder;
*<code>wp-includes</code> folder; If you have a language file here, remember not to delete the <code>wp-includes/languages/</code> folder
*<code>wp-content/cache</code> folder; You only see this folder if you are upgrading FROM WordPress 2.0.
*<code>wp-content/plugins/widgets</code> folder; You only see this folder if you previously installed the Sidebar Widgets plugin.  The Sidebar Widgets code conflicts with the built-in widget ability. 
'''How to Delete?''' There are several ways to delete the arquivos from seu WordPress site.  You can use seu FTP Client, or if you have access to Telenet or SSH you can use that.  Some host providers also provide the ability to delete arquivos and folders.

;Using FTP to delete arquivos and folders :The same [[FTP_Clients|FTP client]] you use for [[Uploading_WordPress_to_a_remote_host|uploading]] can be used to delete arquivos and folders.  If seu [[FTP_Clients|FTP client]] does not appear to permit you to delete non-empty folders, check the available options for seu [[FTP_Clients|FTP client]]. You'll usually find an option that permits deleting non-empty folders. Deleting non-empty folders is a quick and thorough method cleaning out an old installation of WordPress.  It is recommended that once the deleting is done, you switch back to the original setting for safety reasons.

;Using Telnet or SSH to delete file :If you have a command-line login (telnet or ssh), you can enter the following commands to make backup copies of the arquivos you need to keep and to delete ONLY the wordpress arquivos in seu directory (plus .htaccess). If you've customized other arquivos (like <code>index.php</code>) not included by the <code>cp</code> commands below, copy them as well:
:* <code>mkdir backup</code>
:* <code>cp wp-config.php .htaccess backup</code>
:* <code>cp -R wp-content backup</code>
:* <code>rm wp*.php .htaccess license.txt readme.html xmlrpc.php</code>
:* <code>rm -rf wp-admin wp-includes</code>
:* <code>cp backup/wp-config.php .</code>
:* After you have finished with the upgrade, you can restore any customizations to seu templates or plugins from seu backup directory. For example, use <code>cp backup/index.php .</code> to restore <code>index.php</code>.
: Alternatively, using SSH, you could copy <code>wp-config.php, .htaccess</code>, and any content arquivos you've added or altered into the ''new'' wordpress directory. Then, rename the old one (to archive it), and move the new one into its place.

====Passo 8: Envie seus novos arquivos====
With the new upgrade on seu local computer, and using [[Glossary#FTP|FTP]], [[Uploading_WordPress_to_a_remote_host|upload]] the new arquivos to seu site server just as you did when you first installed WordPress.  See [[Using FileZilla|Using FileZilla]] and [[Uploading_WordPress_to_a_remote_host|Uploading WordPress to a remote host]] for  detailed guidelines in using an FTP Client to upload.

'''NOTE: If you did not delete the <code>wp-content</code> folder, you will need to overwrite some arquivos during the upload.''' 

The <code>wp-content</code> folder holds seu WordPress Themes and Plugins.  These should remain.  Upload everything else first, then upload only those WordPress arquivos that are new or changed to seu new <code>wp-content</code> folder. Overwrite any old versions of default plugins with the new ones.

The WordPress default theme has changed so you will want to upload the <code>wp-content/themes/default</code> folder.  If you have custom changes to the default theme, those changes will need to be reviewed and installed after the upgrade.

====Passo 9: Execute o script de atualização do WordPress====
Using a web browser, go to the WordPress admin pages at the normal /wp-admin location. WordPress will check to see if a banco de dados upgrade is necessary, and if it is, it will give you a new link to follow. 

This link will lead you to run the WordPress upgrade script by accessing <tt>wp-admin/upgrade.php</tt>. Follow the instructions presented on seu screen.

Note: Make sure the banco de dados user name registered to WordPress has permission to create, modify, and delete banco de dados tables before you do this Passo. If you installed WordPress in the standard way, and nothing has changed since then, you are fine.

If you want to run the upgrade script manually:
* If WordPress is installed in the root directory, point seu browser to: <tt><nowiki>http://example.com/wp-admin/upgrade.php</nowiki></tt>
* If WordPress is installed in its own subdirectory called <tt>blog</tt>, for example, point seu browser to: <tt><nowiki>http://example.com/blog/wp-admin/upgrade.php</nowiki></tt>

If you experience difficulties with login after seu upgrade, it is worth clearing seu browser's cookies.

====Passo 10: Atualize a estrutura de Links Permanentes e .htaccess====
In seu [[Administration_Panels|Administration]] > [[Administration_Panels#Permalinks|Settings]] > [[Settings_Permalinks_SubPanel|Permalinks]]  panel update seu Permalink Structure and, if necessary, place the rules in seu [[Glossary#.htaccess<|<tt>.htaccess</tt>]] file.  Also see [[Using_Permalinks|Using Permalinks]] for details regarding Permalinks and the [[Glossary#.htaccess<|<tt>.htaccess</tt>]] file.

====Passo 11: Instale plugins e temas atualizados====
Please review the [[Plugins/Plugin_Compatibility|Plugin Compatibility List]] and [[Themes/Theme_Compatibility|Theme Compatibility List]], or plugin/theme authors, to find plugins and themes compatible with seu new WordPress version. Upload and install new versions of seu Plugins and Themes, if necessary.

====Passo 12: Re-ative seus Plugins====
Use seu Administration Panel, Plugins, to activate seu Plugins. If seu plugins do not appear on the [[Plugins/Plugin_Compatibility|Plugin Compatibility List]] and you are not sure if they will work correctly with the new version, activate each plugin, one at a time, and test that there are no problems before continuing.
<!--Please note that if you are using the new WordPress Database Backup Plugin you may need to change the permissions on seu <code>wp-content</code> folder to make it writeable by seu webserver (either mode 666 or even 777).  See [[Changing_File_Permissions|Changing File Permissions]] for more details.
-->

====Passo 13: Add security key definitions to the ''wp-config.php'' file====
Beginning with WordPress [[Version 2.6]], three (3) security keys, AUTH_KEY, SECURE_AUTH_KEY, and LOGGED_IN_KEY, are used to insure better encryption of information stored in the user's cookies. Beginning with [[Version 2.7]] a fourth key, NONCE_KEY, was added to this group.

If you don't find the keys in seu <code>wp-config.php</code> file, add the keys definitions with reference to [[Editing wp-config.php#Security Keys|Editing wp-config.php - Security Keys]], and upload to seu server.

====Passo 14: Review what has changed in WordPress====
Please review these resources to see what's new in WordPress:  

*[[Version_3.1|Version 3.0 Details]]
*[http://wordpress.org/news/2011/02/threeone/ WordPress Development News on 3.1]

=====Special note for Fantastico Upgrades=====
When using the Fantastico upgrade process to upgrade from a pre-Version 2.2, Fantastico will use the wp-config-sample.php file to regenerate a new wp-config.php file.  By doing this, two new values, DB_CHARSET and DB_COLLATE, are placed into the wp-config.php file.  Those lines should be deleted from seu wp-config.php if you are upgrading from a pre-Version 2.2 (like 2.0.10 or 2.1.3) to Version {{CurrentVersion}}.  A detailed explanation about DB_CHARSET and DB_COLLATE can be found in [[Editing wp-config.php]].

<!-- saving for later upgrades
===Upgrade 2.0.6 to {{CurrentVersion}} ===

This is a security upgrade. Information can be found in the
[http://wordpress.org/development/2007/01/wordpress-207/ WordPress Dev Blog 2.0.7 Announcement].

As with all WordPress upgrades, the contents of seu <code>/wp-content/</code> folder should remain intact and unchanged except as noted below.

# Delete <code>/wp-admin/</code> folder.
# Delete <code>/wp-includes/</code> folder. Note: '''You must backup <code>/wp-includes/languages/</code> directory if exists. Also backup <code>/wp-includes/images/</code> IF you are using a custom smiley set.'''
# WordPress {{Template:CurrentVersion}} contains updated arquivos for the classic and default themes as well as the akismet plugin. If you would like the updated arquivos, delete the <code>/wp-content/themes/default</code>, <code>/wp-content/themes/classic</code>, and the <code>/wp-content/plugins/akismet</code> folders. '''Remember to make a backup of seu customisations first!'''
# Delete all the wordpress arquivos in the root directory where the root <code>index.php</code> file is found. '''DO NOT DELETE <code>wp-config.php</code> (nor any arquivos you may have added seuself: <code>robots.txt</code>, <code>.htaccess</code>, <code>favicon.ico</code>).'''
# Download and extract the new version.
# Upload it to the appropriate folders such as <code>/wp-admin/</code>, <code>/wp-includes/</code>, and if you deleted the default theme, the classic theme, and the akismet plugin, <code>/wp-content/themes/classic</code>, and the <code>/wp-content/plugins/akismet</code> folders.
# Upload all the arquivos in the root directory.
# If existed, restore <code>/wp-includes/languages/</code> directory

That's it.

Volunteers are assisting with problems on the [http://wordpress.org/support/ WordPress Support Forums].

**end of saving for later upgrade 
-->

==Troubleshooting==
;Scrambled Layout or Errors :If your blog looks scrambled now or features line errors, an old plugin that doesn't work with the new code may be the culprit. In your WordPress [[Administration_Panels|Administration Panel]], deactivate all plugins that do not come with WordPress by default. Re-activate them one by one.
;Made Custom Changes/Hacks? :If you have made changes to other WordPress files ("hacked" WordPress), you are supposed to keep track of your changes. You will have to transfer your edits into the new code. [[WordPress Versions]] lists the files that have changed in each release.
;Resist Using Old Code :Upgrading gives you the newest and best code. Using your old code, no matter how  much you have customised it, almost certainly will cause problems. The temptation just to use your old modified code will be great, but the chances of errors are much greater.
;Can I Go Back to Old Versions :You can, but it is usually not recommended to rollback (revert) your current version to an older version. That is because newer versions often include security updates and a rollback may put your site at risk. Second, the change between the database structure between versions may cause complications in maintaining your site content, posts, comments, and plugins that are dependent upon the information stored in the database. If you are still intent on this, proceed at your own risk. '''Please note, that without a backup of your entire site and your database, made prior to your upgrade attempt, a successful rollback is near impossible.''' Delete all WordPress files except for <tt>wp-config</tt>. [[Uploading_WordPress_to_a_remote_host|Upload]] the files from your backup to your server and [[Restoring_Your_Database_From_Backup|restore your database backup]]. Remember, you must have good backups for the rollback to work.  For older WordPress versions, a rollback might not work.
;Get More Help :If you get any errors following an upgrade, check [[Installing_WordPress#Common_Installation_Problems|Troubleshooting: Common Installation Problems]], [[Troubleshooting]], and the [http://codex.wordpress.org/Category:Installation Codex Installation Category of Articles].  If you can't find an answer, post a clear question on the [http://www.wordpress.org/support WordPress Suppport Forums]. You will be asked if you have used any old code. You'll be told to change it then, so you may as well change it now :)

==Old Upgrade Information==
If you are considering upgrading to WordPress Version {{CurrentVersion}}, but you are at Version 1.2, then follow the 1.2 to 1.5 upgrade as describe in [[Upgrade_1.2_to_1.5|Upgrading From WordPress Version 1.2 to 1.5]].  Once you are upgraded to Version 1.5.x, then follow the instructions as listed above to upgrade from 1.5 to {{CurrentVersion}}.

{{DEFAULTSORT:A}}
[[Category:Codex-pt]]