{{Languages|
{{en|Administering Your Blog}}
{{ja|Administering Your Blog}}
{{pt-br|Administrando seu Blog}}
}}
{{Comunidade WP-Brasil}}
{{Traduz}}
Generally, the daily tasks associated with administering your WordPress site are quick and easy to do, freeing you to concentrate on the content, editorials, and stories you want to share with the world, and allowing you to get back to other activities.

Here is a quick look at the various activities involved in administering your WordPress site.  Some of these may need to be done daily, while others can be done weekly, monthly, or less frequently.  It depends upon your blogging activity level and the intent of your WordPress site.  Your usage may vary. ;-)

=Tarefas diárias=

==Login e Escrita==
[[Administration_Panels|Administração]] > [[Administration_Panels#Add_New_Post|Posts]] > [[Posts_Add_New_SubPanel|Adicionar Novo]].
A maioria das pessoas começam entrando em seu site WordPress, porque eles têm notícias, informações, ou uma história para contar. Então, eles seguem direto para o [[Painel_Panels | Administração]]> [[Administration_Panels # Add_New_Post | Mensagens]]> [[Posts_Add_New_SubPanel | Adicionar Novo]]. Aonde se define o título, a informação é inserida, categorias e tags escolhido, e qualquer outro detalhe menor observado, e com um clique é publicado.

Se você tiver quaisquer imagens novas, filmes ou músicas, para fazer upload para o site, você poderá fazê-lo facilmente ao escrever o post ou mudar para o [[Administration_Panels | Administração]]> [[Administration_Panels # Upload_New_Media | Media]]> [ [Media_Add_New_SubPanel | Adicionar Nova]] SubPanel e adicionar quaisquer imagens ou arquivos para o seu site WordPress. Você pode então adicioná-los às suas novas mensagens, ou visite o [[Administration_Panels | Administração]]> [[Administration_Panels # Mensagens | Mensagens]]> [[Posts_Posts_SubPanel | Mensagens]] do painel e clique em'' 'Editar''' para editar o post em que você agora deseja adicionar uma imagem. Mais uma vez, clique em Salvar e ele é liberado para o mundo.

Ah, mas depois voce vê aqueles [[Write_Post_SubPanel # Rascunhos | Rascunhos]] listado no topo da tela'' 'Mensagem Write' a'', olhando para você. Sim, é hora de limpar a casa e envia-los para o lixo ou para o mundo.

Felizmente com o WordPress, você tem algumas opções para lidar com todas essas mensagens. Eles não têm que ser divulgado hoje. Muitas pessoas trabalham com seu conteúdo do blog, definindo as datas para o futuro. Quando o dia e a hora chega, WordPress libera automaticamente o post, sem mais esforço de você.

==Checking Comments==
After you have cleaned up the content on your site, it is time to find out what they have been saying about what you say.  On the [[Administration_Panels#Manage_-_Change_your_content|Manage]] > [[Administration_Panels#Comments|Comments]] panel, you can inspect the comments posted to your site. If a comment has been marked for [[Comment_Moderation|moderation approval]], it will look lighter colored than the rest of the comments.  Click [[Manage_Comments_SubPanel#View_Mode|Edit Comment]] to access the comment and set it to be approved.  Click '''Delete Comment''' if you want it gone!

The [[Awaiting_Moderation_SubPanel|Moderation Panel]] will segregate the comments awaiting moderation from the rest of the comments if you have set your [[Administration_Panels|Administration]] > [[Administration_Panels#Discussion|Settings]] > [[Settings_Discussion_SubPanel|Discussion]] to moderate all comments. This allows for quick and easy comment moderation.

Determining which comments to keep and delete is a challenge. Be aware that often nice comments like ''"I really like your site. Keep up the great work."'' and ''"It shows you put a lot of time and effort in this. Thanks."'' might be benign comments, or more likely comment [[Glossary#Spam|spam]]. To help you determine and check on what might be comment spam, and how to increase your protection against comment spammers, the Codex has articles to help you out.

* [[Comment Spam|Introduction to Dealing with Comment Spam]]
* [[Comment Moderation|Moderating Comments]]
* [[Combating Comment Spam]]
* [[Spam Words|Common Spam Words]]
* [[Combating_Comment_Spam/Denying_Access|Denying Access to Comment Spammers with .htaccess]]

==Users and Authors==
If you have set your site set up to [[Registered_User_Features|allow users to register]] and submit articles, stop by your [[Administration_Panels#Users_-_Your_Blogging_Family|Users panel]] to check on those who have registered and make any adjustments to their [[User_Levels|User Levels]] as needed.

If you do allow users to post articles, be sure to check the [[Administration_Panels|Administration]] > [[Administration_Panels#Posts|Posts]] > [[Posts_Posts_SubPanel|Posts]] for any newly posted articles in the '''Drafts''' or '''Pending''' status awaiting your review and release.

==Check The Dashboard==
At this point your daily tasks are about complete. Your site is up-to-date and on its way to entertaining and educating the world. But there is one last task you might want to check.  Stop by your WordPress [[Administration_Panels|Administration]] > [[Administration_Panels#Dashboard|Dashboard]] > [[Dashboard_Dashboard_SubPanel|Dashboard]] panel and check to see if there are any new activities going on in the WordPress Community, especially any announcements about upgrades.

While there, take advantage of your handy "To Do List" featured on the Dashboard. This lists your most recently released posts, the next batch of scheduled entries, recent comments, blog stats, and incoming links (referrers).  This helpful information lets you know what has been released to the public from your site, what is next on the list, and shows you at a glance, the most recent comments.

The blog stats and incoming links give you different information.  The Stats give you information about how many posts, comments, and categories are on your site. While this isn't really critical information, you can use it as a general scoreboard or counter.  The incoming links information tells you who has [[Glossary#PingBack|pinged]] or [[Glossary#Trackback|trackbacked]] to your site.  This helps your link popularity for your site and gives you an idea of who thought your site's material was worthy of praise.

And if you need a little guilt, at the bottom of the page you will see a list of your Drafts, waiting to be done.

=Administration Tasks=
As the administrator or site owner, there are a few more tasks you should add to your schedule. These do not have to be done daily, but they still need to be done on a regular basis.  Many of these are outlined in the articles [[WordPress Housekeeping]] and [[WordPress Site Maintenance]].  In general they are:

* [http://www.wordpress.org/download Check and Install WordPress Updates]
* Check for Dead Links Throughout Your Site
* [http://www.wordpress.org/ Check in with WordPress for Changes and Information]
* [[Backing_Up_Your_Database|Backup Your WordPress Site and Database]]
* [[Using Themes|Update Your Site's Content and/or Look]]
* Update [[Managing_Plugins|Plugins]] and [[Using Themes|Themes]]
* [[Validating_a_Website|Check for Validation Errors]]
* [[WordPress_Optimization|Optimize Your WordPress Site]]

=More Administration Resources =

* [[Administration Panels]]
* [[Registered_User_Features|What Registered Users Can Do]]
* [[Administration_Panels#Categories|Manage Categories]]
* [[Roles and Capabilities|Roles and Capabilities]]
* [[Administration_Panels#Settings_-_Configuration_Settings|Manage WordPress Settings]]
* [[Discussion_Options|Manage Discussion Options]]
* [[Using Permalinks]]
* [[Comment_Moderation|Moderate Comments]]
* [[Managing_Plugins|Manage Plugins]]
* [[Using_Themes|Manage Themes]]

{{DEFAULTSORT:A}}
[[Category:Codex-pt]]