{{Languages|
{{en|Codex:About}}
{{pt-br|Codex:Sobre}}
}}

O '''WordPress Codex''' é destinado para ser uma enciclopédia de conhecimento do WordPress. 

Founded to revitalize the collaborative documentation efforts for [[WordPress]] that began to wane on the previous document site (the defunct [http://wiki.wordpress.org wiki.wordpress.org]), it takes its name from ''codex'' (latin for ''book''), the first invented form of paged volume we recognize as a book, immediately succeeding the scroll as a means to record writing.

One reason for the decline in use of the previous documentation was a certain user-unfriendliness of the tool used. We've chosen a new one for Codex called [http://www.mediawiki.org/ MediaWiki] &mdash; developed by the [http://wikipedia.org/ Wikipedia] team &mdash; which we think greatly enhances the user experience. Another issue with the previous wiki was in the organization of content: it developed without a structure, making it extremely difficult for users to find information. We hope to alleviate this in the WordPress Codex by implementing [[Codex:Guidelines|guidelines]] for its organization and by keeping a devoted group of [[Documentation team|moderators]] to enforce these guidelines.

As this is a [[Wikipedia:wiki|wiki]], anyone can contribute to it, and we encourage you to do so. To get started, please see [[Codex:Contributing|Contributing to Codex]] and the [[Codex:Guidelines| Codex guidelines]], written with Codex editors in mind.

All content on this site (WordPress Codex) is provided for use under the terms of the [[GPL|GNU General Public License]].

== Mais sobre o Codex ==

This is an open wiki, and as such anyone can add to and edit most of the pages in it. For those who do, we urge you to create an account and [[Codex:Creating a User Page|User Page]]. Be sure and login before you work on the Codex, as this allows for better communication. Try the [[Sandbox]] for practicing, and edit freely. Changes can be reverted easily, so be bold in updating!

* [[Copyright Holders]]
* [[Codex:Codex CSS|Codex CSS]]
* [[Codex:Guidelines|Codex Guidelines]]

== Relacionado ==

*[[Codex:Contributing|Contributing to Codex]]
*[[Codex:Guidelines|Codex Guidelines]]
*[[Codex:Maintenance|Codex Maintenance]]
*[[Codex:Tasks|Task List]]
*[[Codex:Community_Portal|Community Portal]]
*[[Multilingual Codex]]

[[Category:About Codex]]