{{Languages|
{{en|FAQ Installation}}
{{it|Domande frequenti sull’installazione di WordPress}}
{{nl|Installatie FAQ}}
{{pt-br|FAQ Instalação}}
{{pt|FAQ Instalação}}
{{ja|FAQ/インストール}}
{{th|FAQ Installation}}
{{zh-cn|安装的常见问题}}
}}

[[FAQ|Voltar para FAQ]]
__TOC__


== Instalação ==
===Como é que eu instalo o WordPress?===

Consultar também:
* [[Installing WordPress]]

=== O que é a famosa instalação de 5 minutos? ===

Consultar também:
* [[Installing_WordPress#Famous_5-Minute_Install|The WordPress Famous 5-Minute Install]]

=== Como é que eu encontro um bom hospedeiro para o meu Sítio da Web WordPress? ===

Consultar também:
* [[Hosting WordPress]]

=== Como é que eu instalo, utilizando cPanel / cPanel X? ===

Consultar também:
* [[cPanel_X]]

=== Como é que eu configuro o ficheiro wp-config.php? ===

Consultar também:
* [[Editing_wp-config.php|Editar wp-config.php]]

=== Quais são os requisitos para a instalação do WordPress? ===

Consultar também:
* [[Hosting WordPress]] and [http://wordpress.org/about/requirements/ Requirements at WordPress.org]

=== Como é que eu posso utilizar o meu idioma no WordPress? ===

~Consultar também:
* [[WordPress Localization|Tradução do Wordpress]]

=== Eu preciso de criar uma base de dados?===

WordPress requires access to a [[Glossary#MySQL|MySQL database]] or [[Glossary#MariaDB|MariaDB]] database to store information. So you need a database. 

You can create a new database if:
#You have not already created one on the server
#Your generous host offers you more than one database, and you wish to have a separate database for the website you are setting up. 

It is not essential to create a new database for each WordPress installation. 

*If you are using the same database for multiple WordPress installations, take care to edit the [[Editing wp-config.php|wp-config.php]] file ensuring that each installation has a unique database prefix.
*If you are setting up a new database for a new website, edit [[Editing wp-config.php|wp-config.php]], and be sure to get the database name, and other details correct.

Consultar também:
* [[Installation#Detailed_Instructions|Instalação, Instruções Detalhadas]]

=== O que é o erro 403 que eu recebo quando tento ver o meu Sítio da Web? ===
'''Sintomas:''' You cannot seem to login after using the right username and password, into your admin account. You get an error message like:

<pre> You are not authorized to view this page
 You might not have permission to view this
 directory or page using the credentials you 
 supplied. If you believe you should be able 
 to view this directory or page, please try 
 to contact the Web site by using any e-mail 
 address or phone number that may be listed 
 on the personal.fredsmith.com home page. 
 You can click Search to look for information
 on the Internet. HTTP Error 403 - Forbidden''</pre>

'''Solução:''' If your account is hosted on a Windows server, it could be a problem with the Directory Indexes. The default configuration of the server is to load <tt>index.htm</tt>, <tt>index.html</tt>, <tt>default.htm</tt>, <tt>default.html</tt>, <tt>default.asp</tt> files.

WordPress is done in PHP so the default page is <tt>index.php</tt>. Now, this is not part of the default configuration so we need to add it. To do this, you need to click on '''Web Options''' in the '''Control Panel'''. Then scroll down to the '''Directory Indexes''' section to add <tt>index.php</tt> to the '''Directory Indexes'''.

Se necessário, contacte o suporte do seu hospedeiro da Web sobre este assunto.

=== Eu posso renomear a pasta do WordPress? ===
If you have not already installed WordPress, you can rename the folder with the WordPress files, before, or even after uploading the files.

If you have already installed WordPress, and you want to rename the folder, login to the weblog as the administrator and change the following settings in 

[[Administration_Panels#Options_-_Configuration_Settings|Definições]] > [[Administration_Panels#General|Geral]]:

* Endereço do WordPress (URL):
* Endereço do Sítio (URL):

Once you have done this, you can rename the directory or folder with the WordPress files in it. 

Consultar também:
* [[Moving WordPress|Moving WordPress]]

=== Como é que eu reponho a Minha Palavra-passe?===

Consultar também:
* [[Resetting Your Password]]

=== Porque é a minha Diretoria de Envio “C:apachehtdocswordpress”? ===
When you specified the upload path, you used backslashes.

Use forward slashes “/” to specify the path to the directory.

=== Eu posso instalar o WordPress no Windows 2000?===
Do '''NOT''' use [[Glossary#MySQL|MySQL database]] version 4.1.7 if you are trying to get WordPress installed using a Windows platform. Read this post originally made to the forums:
<blockquote>
"To all those having problems installing WordPress on your own Windows 2000 (and other Win OS versions) workstation - and maybe some host servers, too: Do not use MySQL 4.1.7 - it is the problem if you get "Error establishing a database connection!". It does not seem compatible with the other components. Use MYSQL 4.0.22 instead.<br /><br />
Thanks to the Reply by ADAMANT in response to the POST of Nov 6, 2004 02:21:29 by ANTOINE, the WordPress installation really did become only 5 minutes, after two days of frustration:
<br /><br />
I started with Windows 2000, PHP 4.3.9, Apache 1.3.33 and MySQL 4.1.7. I spent two days checking my wp-config.php literally 100 times; making changes; troubleshooting my database, using every known name for my host (localhost, 127.0.0.1, <IP address>, computer name, etc...) to no avail. I kept getting:<br /><br />
"Error establishing a database connection!" ...
<br /><br />
I knew it wasn't my config. So thanks to ADAMANT's suggestion, I uninstalled MySQL 4.1.7 and downloaded and installed MySQL 4.0.22 from mysql.org. After installing and configuring the new (old) MySQL, which took approximately 7 minutes (very easy), I ran the install.php once again and YES!! it actually took less than 5 minutes for the WordPress install.<br /><br />
NOTE: the Apache web site says NOT to use Apache 2 in production. So, after all my wasted time with the latest MySQL, I suggest the following to those who can control their environment:<br /><br />
PHP 4.3.9, Apache 1.3.33 and MySQL 4.0.22. On Windows at least, they all work well together."
<br /><br />Steven</blockquote>

'''ATUALIZAÇÃO''': MySQL 4.1.7 uses a new password encryption system that is incompatible with prior methods.  If you want to get WordPress working with a 4.1.7 database, you need to make sure your user password is set as an old-style password (password-old instead of password, if you're using mysqladmin).  -- Nabil

'''ADICIONAL''': As stated above by Nabil, you can force Post 4.1.7 MySQL systems to use the old password lengths. From the MySQL command line interface, as a user that can manipulate the mysql tables (most likely root):

 USE mysql;
 SET PASSWORD FOR 'wordpressuser'@'localhost' = OLD_PASSWORD('somePassword444');
 FLUSH PRIVILEGES;

As the normal password methods will result in the new style password function being used. Another hack would be to run the mysql service with --old-passwords, but I've seen the above password method work under 4.1.19 and 4.1.20 on an XP install - Grey

'''Nota:''' The above are actual user comments, and may be subjective in their content. It is hoped that it will be of help to some users who face the specific problems that are addressed by this question.

== Instalação Avançada ==

===How do I install WordPress with the files in different directories?===
This also answers the questions:

*How can I have my blog in one folder but my index at root?
*How can I have people see my blog at www.example.com but keep all the files in <nowiki>www.example.com/wordpress</nowiki>?
*How do I install WordPress in a different directory than where the index.php resides?

Consultar também:
* [[Giving_WordPress_Its_Own_Directory|Giving WordPress Its Own Directory]]
* [[Moving WordPress]]

===How can I hide my blog from people?===
Whether you are testing a new version of WordPress, setting up a new blog or have some other reason to limit access, the following information may help you keep unwanted visitors out.

'''Apache'''

There is no guaranteed way to do this. You can use the '''.htaccess''' file (which also contains your permalink code) to check for certain IP addresses and prevent them from viewing your site. This will only stop the IP address, not the person, so if they have access to an allowed IP address, they can get to your page. One tutorial for this is located at [http://www.clockwatchers.com/htaccess_intro.html  Clockwatchers.com]

An '''.htaccess''' file can also be used to prevent others from "hot-linking" to your images (bandwidth theft) or to set up a password protected blog.

'''Apache Basic Authentication'''

To require a password to access your site using '''.htaccess''' and '''.htpasswd'''.

Tools that help you create the files necessary to password protect your site: [http://www.htaccesstools.com/htpasswd-generator/ Htaccess Tools] and [http://www.clockwatchers.com/htaccess_tool.html  Clockwatchers.com .htaccess And .htpasswd Tools]

''Nota:'' When your site is accessed the password is encoded weakly using Base64 and can be easily intercepted and decoded.

'''Windows IIS Basic Authentication'''

To require a password if your site is hosted on IIS, you can deselect Allow Anonymous Access and select Basic Authentication. You'll also need to have a username with a password.

''Nota:'' When your site is accessed the password is encoded weakly using Base64 and can be easily intercepted and decoded.

Consultar também:
* [https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/kb/310344 How To Configure IIS 5.0 Web Site Authentication in Windows 2000]
* [https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/kb/299970 How To Use NTFS Security to Protect a Web Page]
* [https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/kb/308160 How to configure Internet Information Services Web authentication in Windows 2000]

'''Search Engines: Spiders and Bots'''

Search Engines will index your site and cache your content.  If you do not want this to happen, use a file called '''robots.txt'''. More details can be found at [http://www.affilorama.com/site-building/robots-txt  Affilorama.com] and elsewhere on the web.

===How can I solve login problems?===

Consultar também:
* [[Login Trouble]]

===How can I get WordPress working when I'm behind a reverse proxy?===
In some setups, it's necessary to use something other than the HTTP_HOST header to generate URLs. Reverse proxies take the original request and send it to one of a group of servers. To do so, it overwrites the HTTP_HOST with the internal server's domain. When that domain is not publicly accessible, at best your images might not load correctly, at worst, you'll be stuck in a redirect loop. To fix this, figure out which header has the right domain name and add a line to your wp-config.php file that overwrites HTTP_HOST with the correct hostname.

If you need to use SERVER_NAME, add this line to wp-config.php:
<pre>$_SERVER['HTTP_HOST'] = $_SERVER['SERVER_NAME'];</pre>

If you need to use HTTP_X_FORWARDED_HOST, add this line to wp-config.php:
<pre>$_SERVER['HTTP_HOST'] = $_SERVER['HTTP_X_FORWARDED_HOST'];</pre>

See: [http://old.nabble.com/When-HTTP_HOST-does-not-point-to-the-blog-td18097138.html this email thread] for more on this fix.

==FTP==
===How do I FTP?===
See also:
* [[Using FileZilla]] and [[FTP Clients]]

===How do I use FileZilla?===
See also:
* [[Using FileZilla]]

===How do I upload the files and folders?===
See also:
* [[Uploading WordPress to a remote host]]

===How do I CHMOD files?===
See also:
* [[Changing File Permissions]]

==MySQL or MariaDB==
===Do I really need MySQL/MariaDB?===
You certainly need the [[Glossary#MySQL|MySQL]] or [[Glossary#MariaDB|MariaDB]] database servers to power your WordPress blog. In fact, WordPress only supports the [[Glossary#MySQL|MySQL]] and [[Glossary#MariaDB|MariaDB]] database servers.  Listed are the PHP and MySQL/MariaDB requirements:

{{Server requirements}}

===Can I use a database other than MySQL/MariaDB?===
Other databases are not supported at the moment.

There are several other excellent database storage engines, such as PostgreSQL and SQLite that WordPress is interested in supporting in the future. Supporting multiple databases is trickier than it sounds and is not under active development, although there are plenty of architectural discussions about the best approach to take.  Approaches for increasing the number of supported databases are discussed at [[Using Alternative Databases]].  There is a PostgreSQL port of WordPress available called [http://wordpress-pg.sourceforge.net/ WordPress-Pg].

===Why does WordPress use MySQL/MariaDB?===
[[Glossary#MySQL|MySQL]] and [[Glossary#MariaDB|MariaDB]] are extremely fast. It is also the most widely available database server in the world. Open-source and free, [[Glossary#MySQL|MySQL]] and [[Glossary#MariaDB|MariaDB]] are supported by thousands of low-cost [[Glossary#Linux|Linux]] (and Windows!) hosts, which means a very low barrier to entry for anyone wanting to start a WordPress (or database-driven) website. [http://www.mysql.com/documentation/ MySQL's documentation] is useful, cogent and thorough. (Note: it may be intimidating if you are new to all this.) Add to all that the fact that users are able to directly manipulate [[Glossary#MySQL|MySQL]] and [[Glossary#MariaDB|MariaDB]] with [[phpMyAdmin]], developed expressly for that purpose, and it is obvious that [[Glossary#MySQL|MySQL]] and [[Glossary#MariaDB|MariaDB]] are the best choice.

== PHP ==
===What is phpMyAdmin?===
phpMyAdmin is a tool written in PHP intended to handle the administration of MySQL/MariaDB over the Web. 

See also:
* [[phpMyAdmin]]

===Do I need to know PHP to use WordPress ?===
No. The only time you would modify your WordPress blog with [[Glossary#PHP|PHP]] would be when integrating some of the [[Plugins|plugins]]. In most cases clear instructions are given within a text file that accompanies the [[Plugins|plugin]]. Other than that, you will not be changing any of the PHP files. 

See also:
* [http://faq.wordpress.net/view.php?p=31 Do I need to know PHP to use WordPress?]

===Will WordPress run in PHP Safe Mode?===
Most definitely! There are no known issues with any version of WordPress when [[Glossary#PHP|PHP]] is running in Safe Mode.

===Do I really need PHP?===
You certainly need [[Glossary#PHP|PHP]] (version 5.2.4 or newer) to power your WordPress blog. [[Glossary#PHP|PHP]] is the scripting language that drives all of WordPress, and without [[Glossary#PHP|PHP]], your server will not be able to interpret the pages that create your weblog.

===How do I find out which version of PHP I have?===
To get information about your server, you can use the [http://php.net/phpinfo ''phpinfo()''] function.  This will also give you information about your [[Glossary#Apache|Apache]] and [[Glossary#PHP|PHP]] version and [[Glossary#mod_rewrite| mod_rewrite]].

See also: 
* [[Finding Server Info]]

== Importing ==
===How can I import posts from my current weblog which uses a different blogging tool?===
See also:
* [[Importing Content]]

===How do I import from b2?===
See also:
* [[Importing_Content#b2|Importing from b2]]

===How do I import from Movable Type MT?===
See also:
* [[Importing from Movable Type to WordPress]]

===How do I import from Blogger?===
See also:
* [[Importing_Content#Blogger|Importing from Blogger]]

===How do I import from Text Pattern?===
See also:
* [[Importing_Content#Textpattern|Importing from Text Pattern]]

===How do I import from a generic RSS Feed?===
See also:
* [[Importing_Content#Importing_from_an_RSS_feed|Importing from an RSS feed]]

===How do I import from other blogging software?===
See also:
* [[Importing Content]]

==Upgrading==

===What version of WordPress do I have?===

There are several methods to find out what version of WordPress you are using:

* In your <tt>wp-includes</tt> folder of your WordPress installation, open the <tt>version.php</tt> file with any [[Glossary#Text editor|text editor]]. It will tell you the version number of your installation.
* In the WordPress [[Administration Panels]], on any panel look at the bottom of the screen and the version number will be visible.
* Some Themes include the version number in the footer template. Or you can add it yourself:

<pre><?php bloginfo('version'); ?></pre>

===What should I do when I want to upgrade WordPress to the latest version?===

See also:
* [[Upgrading WordPress]]

===How do I back up my database?===
See also:
* [[Backing Up Your Database]]

===How do I restore my database?===
See also:
* [[Restoring Your Database From Backup]]

===After running upgrade.php get the message "It doesn't look like you've installed WP yet. Try running install.php."===
After running the [[Upgrading WordPress|WordPress Upgrade]], and clicking on the "Have fun . ." link, it says, "It doesn't look like you've installed WP yet. Try running install.php."   The problem may be that there is not a user with [[Roles_and_Capabilities#Administrator|administrative capabilities]].  

To fix that, use [[phpMyAdmin]] to manually give a user those capabilities: 
# First find the ''ID'' of the user you want to make administrator by looking in the [[Database_Description#Table:_wp_user|wp_user table]].  
#In the [[Database_Description#Table:_wp_usermeta|wp_usermeta table]], for that ''ID'', find the related ''user_id'', and where the ''meta_key'' is ''wp_capabilites'', change the ''meta_value'' to '''a:1:{s:13:"administrator";b:1;}'''.  
#In that same table, for that ''user_id'', where the ''meta_key'' is ''wp_user_level'', change the ''meta_value'' to a '''10'''.  

Please note that the prefix on those tables and those two meta_keys utilize your database prefix.  So if your database prefix is '''mywp_''' then the two tables will be '''mywp_user''' and '''mywp_usermeta''' and the the two meta_keys will be '''mywp_capabilities''' and '''mywp_user_level'''.

See also:
*[http://wordpress.org/support/topic/62694?replies=20 WordPress Support Forum Thread from March 2006]

===How do you force a database upgrade?===

Under certain situations, it may be necessary to cause a database to pass through the upgrade process again.  To do that, you need to lower the '''db_version''' value in the wp_options table that corresponds to the version you want to upgrade '''from'''.  For instance, if you want to force the database upgrade that happens from 2.0.11 to 2.3 you would change your '''db_version''' to '''3441'''.  To force an upgrade from 2.5 to 2.8, change that value to '''7558'''.

<pre>
'''db_version''' for WordPress releases:
4.4.2  = 35700
4.4.1  = 35700
4.4    = 35700
4.3.1  = 33055
4.3    = 33055
4.2.5  = 31532
4.2.4  = 31532
4.2.3  = 31532
4.2.2  = 31532
4.2.1  = 31532
4.2    = 31532
4.1.2  = 30133
4.1.1  = 30133
4.1    = 30133
4.0.1  = 29630
4.0    = 29630
3.9.3  = 27916
3.9.2  = 27916
3.9.1  = 27916
3.9    = 27916
3.8.5  = 26691
3.8.4  = 26691
3.8.3  = 26691
3.8.2  = 26691
3.8.1  = 26691
3.8    = 26691
3.7.5  = 25824
3.7.4  = 25824
3.7.3  = 25824
3.7.2  = 25824
3.7.1  = 25824
3.7    = 25824
3.6.1  = 22448
3.6    = 22448
3.5.2  = 22442
3.5.1  = 22441
3.5    = 22441
3.4.2  = 21707
3.4.1  = 21115
3.4    = 20596
3.3.3  = 19470
3.3.2  = 19470
3.3.1  = 19470
3.3    = 19470
3.2.1  = 18226
3.2    = 18226
3.1.4  = 17516
3.1.3  = 17516
3.1.2  = 17516
3.1.1  = 17516
3.1    = 17056
3.0.5  = 15477
3.0.4  = 15477
3.0.3  = 15477
3.0.2  = 15477
3.0.1  = 15477
3.0    = 15260
2.9.2  = 12329
2.9.1  = 12329
2.9    = 12329
2.8.6  = 11548
2.8.5  = 11548
2.8.4  = 11548
2.8.3  = 11548
2.8.2  = 11548
2.8.1  = 11548
2.8    = 11548
2.7.1  = 9872
2.7    = 9872
2.6.5  = 8204
2.6.3  = 8204
2.6.2  = 8204
2.6.1  = 8204
2.6    = 8201
2.5.1  = 7796
2.5    = 7558
2.3.3  = 6124
2.3.2  = 6124
2.3.1  = 6124
2.3    = 6124
2.2.3  = 5183
2.2.x  = 5183
2.2    = 5183
2.1.3  = 4773
2.1.x  = 4773
2.1    = 4772
2.0.11 = 3441
2.0.x  = 3441
2.0    = 3441
1.5.x  = 2541
1.x    = 2540
</pre>

Note: Use [[phpMyAdmin]] to change that value, or use ''wp-admin/options.php''.

Once the '''db_version''' is changed, when logging into your blog a link to upgrade the database will be offered.

===Do I need to deactivate plugins before using the core update option?===
In the past one of the upgrade procedures called for deactivating all plugins, but with the core upgrade process released with [[Version 2.7]] you do not need to deactive the plugins.  Here's Ryan Boren's explanation as to why:  

''During the upgrade, your blog is put in maintenance mode and loading is halted at the beginning of wp-settings.php.  Nothing really runs, including plugins.  The only thing  allowed to run is the DB upgrade, which takes care of making sure plugins are not loaded.  You don't need to deactivate plugins unless you like turning them back on one-by-one after upgrading to isolate any breakage they might cause.''

===The core upgrade is not working, what can I do?===
If the core upgrade, for example upgrading from 2.7 to 2.71, is not working, one of these solutions might help:
# If the upgrade seems in an endless loop and you are using Memcache object cache backend, upgrade Memcache (see [http://trac.wordpress.org/ticket/8407 Trac Ticket 8407]).
# If upgrading fails due to a restrictive suexec (e.g. some Italian hosts) then try the [[Editing_wp-config.php#Override_of_default_file_permissions|FS_CHMOD_DIR and FS_CHMOD_FILE in wp-config.php]] see [http://trac.wordpress.org/ticket/8478 Trac Ticket 8478]).


[[pt|Página Inicial]]