{{Languages|/* European Portuguese (pt_PT) */ 
{{en|WordPress in Your Language}}
{{ja|WordPress を他の言語で使う}}
{{th|เวิร์ดเพรสในภาษาของคุณ}}
}}

Although WordPress displays in U.S. English by default, the software has the built-in capability to be used in any language. The WordPress community has already translated WordPress into many languages, and there are Themes, translation files, and support available in many other languages. It is also possible to create a [[Multilingual_WordPress|multilingual blog]] with the help of [[Plugins]].

== Introdução ==
If you want to use WordPress in another language, you can do the following:

* Check below to see what is already available in your language.
* Read [[Installing WordPress in Your Language]] to learn how to install files that will transform WordPress so it displays in your language.
* If your language is not listed below, you can also try the [http://svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/ WordPress Language File Repository] (see [[Translating_WordPress#WordPress_Localization_Repository | this article on the Repository]] for more information).

== Arabic &#8211; عربي (ar)==
* [http://ar.wordpress.org/ ووردبريس العربي]
* [http://www.ar-wp.com/ Arab WordPress] - They generally have the latest WordPress version.

== Catalan - Català (ca)==

* Catalan version available at: [http://ca.wordpress.org ca.wordpress.org]
* [http://www.wordpresscat.com WordPressCat]
* [http://ca.translationswp.com/ WPTranslations]

== Estonian - Eesti (et)==

* SVN: [http://svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/et/ svn.automattic.com/wordpress-i18n/et]
* Wordpress 2.x: [http://www.kakupesa.net/wordpress/ kakupesa.net/wordpress]
* Tõlked Eesti: [http://et.translationswp.com/ WPTranslations]

== French - Français (fr_FR)==

* Documentation: [[fr:Main_Page|Codex en Fran&ccedil;ais]] ([[fr:Codex:Contribuer|Contribuez]] à son expansion !)
* [http://codex.wordpress.org/Category:French_Codex Pages du Codex en Français]
* [http://wordpress-fr.net/ Communauté WordPress Francophone]
* [http://wordpress-fr.net/support/ Forums de soutien et d'entraide en français]
* [http://xavier.borderie.net/wp-fr/ Blog de la traduction française]
* Installation de la traduction : [http://xavier.borderie.net/wp-fr/installation-de-wordpress-en-francais/ Page d'instructions]
* [[fr:Effort_de_Traduction#Lexique_Indicatif | Lexique indicatif]]
* [http://fr.translationswp.com/ Wordpress Français] par translationswp.

; Toutes les versions de WordPress en français
* http://fr.wordpress.org/

; WordPress Mu 1.x et 2.x
* [http://www.wordpress-fr.net/wordpress-mu/telechargements Informations & Downloads]

== German - Deutsch (de_DE)==

Offizielle Deutsche Version unter [http://de.wordpress.org de.wordpress.org] mit deutscher Sprachdatei.

Auf [http://wordpress-deutschland.org WordPress Deutschland] findet man [http://forum.wordpress-deutschland.org Foren], [http://wordpress-deutschland.org/download deutsche Sprachdateien, Themes, Plug-Ins, ein WordPress-Rundum-Sorglos-Paket], [http://doku.wordpress-deutschland.org/ eine Doku] und ein [http://blogmap.wordpress-deutschland.org/ WordPress-Nutzerverzeichnis] sowie den [http://planet.wordpress-deutschland.org Planet WordPress], ein Metablog welches Meldungen rund um WordPress aus dem ganzen Netz sammelt.

[http://wordpress-deutschland.org/ WordPress Deutschland] is the home of the German WordPress User Community, hosting the [http://doku.wordpress-deutschland.org/ documentation] (work in progress), a [http://forum.wordpress-deutschland.org/ discussion board], [http://wordpress-deutschland.org/download up/download area] and the [http://planet.wordpress-deutschland.org/ Planet WordPress] metablog, which is gathering WordPress related information from several blogs, as well as a German WordPress [http://blogmap.wordpress-deutschland.org/ user directory].

* [http://de.translationswp.com/ Wordpress Deutsch] durch translationswp.

* Online Documentation: [http://doku.wordpress-deutschland.org/ Deutsche WordPress Dokumentation]
* German Language [http://wordpress-deutschland.org/download File, Themes, localized PlugIns and a ready-to-go package].

== Italian (it_IT)==

[http://www.wordpress-it.it/ WordPress Italy] è il blog del WordPress Italy project, dal blog si ha accesso alle [http://www.wordpress-it.it/wiki/ pagine del wiki italiano], dove troverete informazioni su WordPress in Italiano. Tutte le attività di traduzione sono coordinate tramite il blog. &Egrave; anche disponibile il [http://www.wordpress-it.it/forum WordPress Italy Forum] che fornisce supporto agli utenti italiani.

* Documentazione: [http://www.wordpress-it.it Italiana]
* WordPress: [http://www.wordpress-it.it/wiki/Main/WordPressInItaliano/ Ultima versione di WP in italiano]


''[http://www.wordpress-it.it/ WordPress Italy] is the blog about the WordPress Italy Project, from the blog you can access the [http://www.wordpress-it.it/wiki/ Italian Wiki pages], where you will find information about WordPress in Italian. All Italian translation efforts are coordinated from the blog. There is also a [http://www.wordpress-it.it/forum WordPress Italy Forum] to provide support to Italian users.

* Documentation: [http://www.wordpress-it.it Italian]
* WordPress: [http://www.wordpress-it.it/wiki/Main/WordPressInItaliano/ Last WP version in Italian]''
* Translations: [http://it.translationswp.com/ Wordpress Italian]

== Latvian (Latviešu) (lv)==

* Official site: [http://lv.wordpress.org WordPress latviešu valodā]
* [http://groups.google.com/group/wordpress-latviesu-valoda/ Mailing list, discussion group]
* [http://lv.translationswp.com/ WPTranslations]

== Portuguese - Português==/* European Portuguese (pt_PT) */ 
* [http://pt.translationswp.com/ Wordpress Portugues]
 
=== European Portuguese (pt_PT) ===
[http://www.wp-portugal.com WP Portugal] é o site da Comunidade Portuguesa de WordPress. Todos os esforços de tradução para Português de Portugal são coordenados a partir daí. Tem ainda um fórum à sua disposição para suporte em português ao WordPress.

''[http://www.wp-portugal.com WP Portugal] is the blog of the WordPress Portuguese Community. All translation efforts into European Portuguese are coordinated from the blog. There is also a Forum to provide support to all portuguese-speaking users.''

;'''Páginas Oficiais'''
* [http://pt.wordpress.org Página oficial de downloads (pt.wordpress.org)]
* [http://www.wp-portugal.com Comunidade Portuguesa de WordPress]
* [http://pt.forums.wordpress.org Fórum]

=== Brazilian Portuguese (pt_BR) ===
* [http://br.wordpress.org Site Oficial do WordPress em Português do Brasil] onde você encontra as traduções oficiais feitas pela [http://www.wordpress-br.com Comunidade WordPress-BR], a partir da versão 2.5

* [http://www.webmais.com/wordpress/ Brazilian Portuguese 2.6.5]  ('''Português Brasileiro''') Também estão disponíveis traduções para versões a partir da: '''2.3.X'''

* [http://www.bagulhos.blog.br/traducao-do-wordpress WordPress 2.3.1 Português do Brasil]

* [http://alenonimo.com.br/wordpress/traducao/ Brazilian Portuguese 2.3 Beta 1]

* [http://taijiquan.pro.br/baixar/ Brazilian Portuguese 2.1.3] This  '''used to be''' the official translation, up to version 2.1.3.  Also available are versions for WP 1.2, 1.5 and 2.0. '''Please refer to [http://br.wordpress.org Wordpress in Portuguese]''' for the present official translations (Esta era a tradução ofical até a versão 2.1.3. Também estão disponíveis traduções para versões antigas do Wordpress.  Por favor veja o [http://br.wordpress.org Site Official do WordPress em Português do Brasil] para as traduções oficiais atuais).

* [http://www.perazza.com/wordpress Brazilian Portuguese 2.1.2]

== Spanish - Espa&ntilde;ol ==

=== Espa&ntilde;ol - Espa&ntilde;a (es_ES) ===

* Recomendamos la traducción oficial, descargable desde el sitio oficial [http://es.wordpress.org WordPress Español]
* Si quieres ver el listado de otras traducciones de '''WordPress''' pulsa [http://codex.wordpress.org/WordPress_in_Your_Language#WordPress_2 aquí].
* Si quieres ver el listado de otras traducciones de '''WordPress MU''' pulsa [http://codex.wordpress.org/WordPress_in_Your_Language#WordPress_MU_2 aquí].
==== WordPress ====

'''NOTA''': Las siguientes traducciones se encuentran ordenadas en primer lugar '''por rama''', a continuación '''por versión''' (la versión más reciente de una rama al principio de la misma) y para finalizar dentro de la misma versión '''por orden alfabético''' según el nombre del traductor o grupo de traducción.

* Puedes encontrar mas traducciones en [http://es.translationswp.com/ Wordpress Español] de Translationswp.



[[Category:Translating WordPress]]   
[[Category:Advanced Topics]]