{{Languages|
{{en|Restoring Your Database From Backup}}
{{it|Ripristinare il database dal backup}}
{{ja|データベースの復元}}
{{pt-br|Restaurando Banco de dados a partir do Backup}}
}}

This page was moved to https://wordpress.org/support/article/restoring-your-database-from-backup/ except above language locator.
<!--
== Using phpMyAdmin ==

[[phpMyAdmin]] is a program used to manipulate databases remotely through a web interface. A good hosting package will have this included. For information on backing up your WordPress database, see [[Backing Up Your Database]].

Information here has been tested using [[phpMyAdmin]] 4.0.5 running on Unix.

The following instructions will '''replace''' your current database with the backup, '''reverting''' your database to the state it was in when you backed up.

=== Restore Process ===

Using phpMyAdmin, follow the steps below to restore a MySQL/MariaDB database.

# Login to [[phpMyAdmin]].
# Click "Databases" and select the database that you will be importing your data into.
# You will then see either a list of tables already inside that database or a screen that says no tables exist. This depends on your setup.
# Across the top of the screen will be a row of tabs.  Click the '''Import''' tab.
# On the next screen will be a location of text file box, and next to that a button named '''Browse'''.
# Click '''Browse'''.  Locate the backup file stored on your computer.
# Make sure '''SQL''' is selected in the '''Format''' drop-down menu.
# Click the '''Go''' button.

Now grab a coffee. This bit takes a while.  Eventually you will see a success screen.

If you get an error message, your best bet is to post to the [http://wordpress.org/support/ WordPress support forums] to get help.

== Using MySQL/MariaDB Commands ==

The restore process consists of unarchiving your archived database dump, and importing it into your MySQL/MariaDB database.

Assuming your backup is a <tt>.bz2</tt> file, created using instructions similar to those given for [[Backing_Up_Your_Database#Using_Straight_MySQL/MariaDB_Commands|Backing up your database using MySQL/MariaDB commands]], the following steps will guide you through restoring your database:

1. Unzip your <tt>.bz2</tt> file:

<pre>user@linux:~/files/blog> bzip2 -d blog.bak.sql.bz2</pre>

'''Note:''' If your database backup was a <tt>.tar.gz</tt> file called <tt>blog.bak.sql.tar.gz</tt>, then 
<pre>tar -zxvf blog.bak.sql.tar.gz</pre>
is the command that should be used instead of the above.

2. Put the backed-up SQL back into MySQL/MariaDB:

<pre>user@linux:~/files/blog> mysql -h mysqlhostserver -u mysqlusername
 -p databasename < blog.bak.sql

Enter password: (enter your mysql password)
user@linux~/files/blog:> </pre>


[[Category:Getting Started]]
[[Category:Advanced Topics]]
[[Category:Troubleshooting]]
-->