如果你是 [http://www.wordpress.org/ WordPress] 的新手且你擔心不知從何開始，那你就來對地方了。這裡是給剛開始用WordPress的使用者的一個非常簡潔步驟。請記住，如果你在使用的過程中 [[#Need More Help|需要說明]] ， 再這篇文章中有列舉很多可以幫忙你的連結可供選擇。歡迎來到這令人興奮的WordPress世界！

安裝完WordPress和閱讀完以下的步驟表後，你可以考慮安裝你的第一個擴充套件 [http://asymptomatic.net/wp/2005/07/20/1765/codex-searcher/ Codex and Forum Searcher Plugin]。 這個套件可以讓你直接在WordPress的控制台搜尋WordPress Codex 和 [http://www.wordpress.org/support WordPress Support Forum] 。 當你使用WordPress時，只要點選搜尋結果就會另開視窗或標籤（TAB），就可以閱讀Support Forum和WordPress Codex裡的文章和討論。如此一來，資訊唾手可得，縮短跳槽到WordPress的陣痛期。

==第一步 - 讀==

在你投入你的寶貴時間和精力來安裝WordPress前，請先閱讀過以下的文件。
WordPress是一個很棒的產品，且易於使用，它非常強大，但並不是一定適合每個人，就像蓋房子，你必須選擇適合你的工具。

* [[Introduction to Blogging| 關於 網路日誌 - 到底什麼是部落格?]]
* [[WordPress| 什麼是WordPress?]]
* [[WordPress Features|WordPress的特色]]
* [[Before You Install|安裝WordPress前]]

==第二步 - 計畫==

在你閱讀過安裝WordPress的介紹後，相信你已經列出你所需要且必須做的清單。如果還沒，現在就列吧！確定你的清單中有接下來的這些資訊:

* [[Hosting_WordPress|主機安裝環境的檢查和確認]]
* [[Hosting_WordPress|PHP 和 MySQL 的版本檢查和確認]]
* 你的網站帳號跟密碼
* [[Glossary#Text editor|文字編輯器軟體]]
* [[FTP_Clients|FTP軟體]]
* 你所選擇的網頁瀏覽器

以下的文件可以幫助你更瞭解WordPress的運作和如何規劃你的WordPress網站


* [[WordPress Features|WordPress的特色]]
* [[First Steps With WordPress|使用WordPress的第一步]]
* [[WordPress Lessons|WordPress課程]]


規劃如何應用WordPress在你的網站上是非常重要的。針對下列問題，請自問自答，並把答案列單，以便把它加入你的網站規劃。

* 你將安裝WordPress在根目錄、次目錄抑或你只想架個測試網站以確認你是否要用它?
* 你已經把 [[Glossary#C|分類]]都列出一個清單了嗎? 並知道WordPress只可以將分類按照字母排序或者是ID順序(經由 [[Administration_Panels#Manage - Change your content|Manage]] > [[Administration_Panels#Categories|Categories]] 所輸入的順序), 所以如果分類的順序對你而言是很重要的，開始排序你的分類清單吧。 
* 你已經列好你想要新增的[[Pages|頁面]](例如'''About'''、'''Contact'''、 '''Events''')清單了嗎？

==第三步 - 安裝 WordPress==

有了這些資訊跟你的計畫，就可以開始安裝WordPress。

* [[Before You Install|安裝WordPress前]]
* [[Installing WordPress|安裝WordPress]]
* [[Hosting WordPress|WordPress的安裝環境]]
* [[Editing_wp-config.php|修改<tt>wp-config.php</tt> 檔]]
* [[FAQ Installation|關於安裝的常見發問問題]]
* [[FTP Clients|使用FTP軟體]]
* [[Changing File Permissions|修改檔案權限]]
* [[Upgrading WordPress|升級WordPress]]
* [[Installing WordPress#Common Installation Problems|常見安裝問題]]
* [[Login Trouble|無法登入？]]

==第四步 - 設定 WordPress==

完成安裝後，接下來就可以設定你的偏好設定。當你更改設定時，建議你可以點在[[Administering Your Blog|控制台]]  右上角的<tt>View Site</tt>隨時瀏覽你的網頁 你也許會選擇用任何順序去執行這些步驟，不過按照以下這些順序會讓你遇到的麻煩減少:

* [[Administering Your Blog]]
* [[Administration_Panels#Users_-_Your_Blogging_Family|Users]] > [[Administration_Panels#Your_Profile|Your User Profile]] - 設定 你想顯示在網站上的[[Registered User Features|user information]] 
* [[Administration_Panels#Your_Profile|Your User Profile]] > [[Administration_Panels#Authors_.26_Users|Other Users]] - 新增 [[User Levels|authors and users]] 使用你的網站
* [[Administration_Panels#Options - Configuration Settings|Options]] > [[Administration_Panels#General|General]] - 設定你的網站名稱和資訊
* [[Administration_Panels#Options - Configuration Settings|Options]] > [[Administration_Panels#Writing|Writing]] - 設定書寫時的設定
* [[Administration_Panels#Options - Configuration Settings|Options]] > [[Administration_Panels#Reading|Reading]] - 設定單面要顯示多少文章、預設文章發表的所在分類
* [[Administration_Panels#Options - Configuration Settings|Options]] > [[Administration_Panels#Discussion|Discussion]] - 開放或關閉迴響和設定迴響
* [[Administration_Panels#Manage - Change your content|Manage]] > [[Administration_Panels#Categories|Categories]] - 新增你分類清單中分類
* [[Administration_Panels#Manage - Change your content|Manage]] > [[Administration_Panels#Posts|Posts]] - 在你發表一些文章後，這裡可以讓你編輯或舍刪除它們
* [[Administration_Panels#Presentation - Change the Look of your Blog|Presentation]] > [[Using Themes|Themes]] - 改表你的網站外觀
* [[Administration_Panels#Manage - Change your content|Manage]] > [[Administration_Panels#Pages|Pages]] - 新增一頁 [[Pages|Page]] 或者兩頁像 "關於我們" 或 "聯絡方式"
* [[Administration_Panels#Write - Make some content|Write]] > [[Administration_Panels#Write Post|Write Post]] - 開始為你的網站新增內容
* [[Writing Posts]] - 參照此連結裡的步驟表

花點時間瀏覽[[Main Page|WordPress Codex]], 這是WordPress的官方文件，你可以找到對你有幫助的資訊 [[WordPress Lessons]],和這些非常有幫助的文件:

* [[Comment Spam|如何對付垃圾迴響]]
* [[Comment Moderation|修改迴響]]
* [[Links Manager|使用連結管理]]
* [[Localization|WordPress其他語言版本]]

====呈現方式和主題外觀(Themes)====

在新版的1.5中，改變你的WordPress網站外觀只要用滑鼠點幾下就可實現。這裡有一些相關連結關於用主題外觀改變你的網站呈現方式。

* [[Using Themes|使用 WordPress Themes]]
* [[Blog Design and Layout|部落格的設計和版面]]
* [[Pages|使用 Pages]]

這時你可能正在為選擇適合你的網站主題傷腦筋，或者你想更深入了解你的WordPress Theme是如何運作。這些簡單的指南可以幫助你修改你的WordPress Theme:

* [[WordPress Lessons#Designing Your WordPress Site|Lessons: Designing Your WordPress Site]]
* [[CSS|CSS Overview, Tips, Techniques, and Resources]]
* [[Stepping Into Templates]]
* [[WordPress Lessons#Templates|Lessons: Template Files]]
* [[Stepping Into Template Tags]]
* [[WordPress Lessons#Template Tags|Lessons: Working With Template Tags]]
* [[Template Tags|WordPress Template Tags]]
* [[The Loop|Understanding the WordPress Loop]]
* [[The Loop in Action|The WordPress Loop in Action]]
* [[Editing Files|Editing Files in WordPress]]
* [[Blog Design and Layout# Frequently Requested Design Help|Frequently Requested Design Help]]
* [[FAQ_Layout and Design| Frequently Asked Questions about Site Layout and Design]]

If you want to create a new WordPress Theme from scratch, or do major renovations, or even design WordPress Themes for public release, you will need to be familiar with [[Know Your Sources|HTML, XHMTL, and CSS]].  The following documents will get you started:

* [[Theme Development|Developing Your Own WordPress Theme]]
* [[Designing Themes for Public Release]]
* [[Validating a Website]]
* [[WordPress Lessons#Website Development|Lessons: Website Development]]
* [[CSS Fixing Browser Bugs]]
* [[CSS Troubleshooting]]
* [http://www.positioniseverything.net/ Positioniseverything]
* [http://www.positioniseverything.net/guests/3colcomplex.html Position is Everything's 3 Complex Column - Perched on a Lily Pad]
* [http://www.positioniseverything.net/piefecta-rigid.html Position is Everything Piefecta 3-Column Layout]

If you want a custom-made WordPress Theme created especially for you by expert web-designers, it is recommended you search for qualified web-designers on the Internet, or look in your local community, or draw from the [http://laughingsquid.net/faq/webdesigners.php List of Recommended Web Page Designers by Laughing Squid].

====加入 Plugins（擴充套件）====

There are many "add-on" scripts and programs for WordPress called [[Plugins]] that add more capabilities, choices, and options to your WordPress site.  WordPress Plugins do many things, including; customizing the results of your site information, adding weather reports, adding spell check capability, and presenting custom lists of posts and acronyms. For more on how to work with Plugins and where to find WordPress Plugins for your site:

* [[Managing Plugins]]
* [[Plugins]]
* [http://www.wp-plugins.org/ http://www.wp-plugins.org/]
* [http://www.wp-plugins.net/ http://www.wp-plugins.net/]
* [http://www.bloggingpro.com/archives/category/wordpress-plugins/ Bloggingpro List of Plugins]

==WordPress的進階使用==

Now that you are familiar with the basic features and functions of how WordPress works, it might be time for you to plunge deeper into the power of WordPress.  The links below will expand your familiarity with PHP, HTML, XHTML, and CSS:

* [[WordPress Lessons#Features and Functions|Lessons: WordPress Feature and Functions]]
* [[WordPress Lessons#WordPress Tech|Lessons: WordPress Tech Techniques]]
* [[Using Permalinks]]
* [[Photoblogs and Galleries]]
* [[Advanced Topics#WordPress Advanced Techniques|WordPress Advanced Techniques]]
* [[Advanced Topics# WordPress Plugins and Customization|Advanced Techniques for Plugins and Customization]]
* [[Advanced Topics#Server and Database Information|WordPress Server and Database Information]]
* [[Developer Documentation]]

==其他說明==

As simple and easy as it is to use WordPress, if troubles arise, if something is confusing, if things aren't working, don't despair because help is available!  Even though WordPress is free and open source, there are literally hundreds of volunteers eager to help you.  Here are some helpful resources for WordPress:

* [[FAQ]]
* [[Getting More Help]]
* [[Using the Support Forums]]
* [http://www.wordpress.org/support WordPress Forum]
* [[IRC|IRC Freenode WordPress Support on channel #wordpress]]
* [[WordPress IRC Live Help]]

==最後==

Now that you're a full fledged WordPress user, [[Codex:Community_Portal|consider contributing]] to the WordPress Codex, Support Forum, Development, and other volunteer efforts that keep WordPress going. WordPress is free and totally supported by volunteers, and your help is needed.
 

[[Category:WordPress Lessons]]
[[Category:WordPress Help]]
[[Category:Getting Started]]
[[Category:Troubleshooting]]