==WordPress Specific==
===[[Testing/XML-RPC and Atom API]]=== 
;Testing for popular XML-RPC clients (Ecto, w.bloggar); development of WP's standard posting API support.
* Steve Cooley: I regularly use ecto on the mac and I own a license to marsedit, I can help test.  steve@somejunkwelike.com - [[User:SteveCooley|SteveCooley]]
* [[User:KingBYU|Jacob]] I've read most of the Atom API spec, I can help with development if someone will mentor me a bit.

===[[Testing/Trackbacks, Pingbacks, and Comments]]===
; Test trackback and pingback functionality between different blogs and blogging systems; audit code regularly for vulnerabilities or bugs; improve pingback support (extraction); outgoing ping development (execute-pings.php).
* Edrei Zahari/kamigoroshi/derevon@hotmail.com: I can't code php, but I regularly pingback and trackback to a lot of sites and blogs and I can check to see whether everything is working well.

===[[Testing/User system and Roles]]===
; Ensuring compatibility with old themes and plugins; Documentation of roles.
* David House/davidhouse/dmhouse@gmail.com: I coathoured the Role Manager plugin with Owen so I'm fairly familiar with the API. I can volunteer around 3-4 hours here.
* [[User:Abhay|Abhay Kumar]] a[at]abhaykumar[dot]net: I should get cracking and actually move from armchair to proactive contributor. I can offer 2-3 hours a week here.

===[[Testing/Javascript and WYSIWYG]]===
; Consolidating and improving load times; graceful degradation; improving XHTML compatibility (don't mess up people's code); saving JS preferences in user preferences; Ajaxcat, list manipulation, TinyMCE, DBX.
* David House/davidhouse/dmhouse@gmail.com: I'd like to learn more here. I can't offer much at the moment as I'm not too familiar but I'll try. 1-2 hours.
* Brad Fults/h3h/bfults@gmail.com: I can do JS code cleanup and review for now. Later on this year I can devote more time to new development. 1-2 hours.
* Pradyot Ghate/ghate/pradyot_g@yahoo.com: I have worked with JS, XHTML and DOM. Now getting started with AJAX. I would like to help in any possible manner. 2-3 hours.
* Kirk Steffensen/Captkirk/blogger (at sign) steffensenfamily dot com: I designed the Gallery2 Image chooser for TinyMCE ([http://g2image.steffensenfamily.com/ Info], [http://demo.steffensenfamily.com/wordpress/ Live Demo]) for [http://wpg2.ozgreg.com/forums/viewtopic.php?t=1922 integrating WPG2 with WP 2.0].  I have some definite thoughts on improving the TinyMCE integration and would like to be involved.
* Kelvin Li/Ad2001/ad2001@gmail.com: I have quite a few experience in working with JavaScript, CSS, XHTML and PHP.  I'm willing to spend time to improve WP ^_^.

===[[Testing/Rewrites and Permalinks]]===
; Testing different rewrite methods includin 404, mod_rewrite, lighttpd; ensuring headers work under PHP CGI, mod_php, etc.

===[[Testing/Bundled Themes]]===
; Browser testing; easy to understand; easy to modify; using latest features available in theme system; XHTML validity.
* Chasen Le Hara, [[Rendezvouscp|Rendezvouscp]], rendezvouscp@gmail.com: I'm very enthusiastic about web standards and would love to participate in working with the bundled themes. I'm fairly familiar with XHTML and CSS and am currently learning about DOM Scripting and unobtrusive JS.
* Myo Thwe Lin, me@myothwelin.com: I am passionate about the Wordpress since the release of Version 2.0. I have years of experience dealing with web standards and development. It would be my honor to help out in developing Wordpress themes (in fact I am already doing it). I have strong experience and knowledge with PHP,XHTML,CSS and DOM Scripting.
* [[User:Nao|Naoko McCracken]], info@nao-net.com: I can contribute my time to theme-related tasks.
* I can contribute some time to this also. --[[User:Raena|Raena]] 23:42, 20 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* [[User:Abhay|Abhay Kumar]] a[at]abhaykumar[dot]net - I'm capable enough in W3C standards to contribute here. I can offer 1-2 hours per week
* [[User:jenz|Jennifer Zelazny]], jzelazny[at]sandboxdev[dot]com: I have been working with W3C standards for several years and would love to contribute a few hours a week to WordPress.
* [[User:Yngwin|Yngwin]] aka Ben de Groot: I have produced several WP themes myself and have good knowledge of W3C standards, web development best practices and PHP coding.
* I have edited and worked with many different themes and have created many different websites and webpages.  Have extra space and bandwidth and am familiar with w3c standards. --[[User:Stabani|Stabani]] 18:14, 29 Jan 2006 (GMT)

===[[Testing/Categories]]===
; Testing of adding, deleting, renaming, re-nesting, URLs.
* David House/davidhouse/dmhouse@gmail.com: I've written various piecs of code relating to categories, I can help out here. 1-2 hours.

===[[Testing/In-line Documentation and Editing]]===
; Including bits of documentation to explain non-intuitive parts of WP; linking to further help; improving brevity and clarity of text.
* How I've longed for inline help for WordPress linking it to the Codex! I can give 5+ hours a week for this project--[[User:Jonabad|Jonabad]] 07:45, 18 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* I've also longed for inline help wwith Codex Hooks, as i also volunteered for Codex, i can give 5 or so hours a week for this aswell. --[[User:Nybble|Nybble]] 05:52, 22 Jan 2006 (GMT)

===[[Testing/Pages]]===
; Improving WP's usefulness as a CMS; page editing and features; page listing functions.
* please add rss feeds to pages :-\ (oh, ok, I can help test here, too --[[User:Stevecooley|Stevecooley]] 22:23, 18 Jan 2006 (GMT))
* I have an invested interest in WP's content management functionality in that I'm working to convert a static site I manage to a WP-based one. I'm in to help in this area. -- [[User:ScottFrancis|ScottFrancis]] 02:38, 20 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* [[User:Ttech5593|Joe]] 00:49, 21 Jan 2006 (GMT) : I'll be glad to help with this. I've been using word press since 1.52. I can't program in PHP  but under stand it. Also I have some  ideas on how to make WP a CMS and have been working on making WP a CMS too, but I'll do more if needed. (1-2 Hours at least a week)
*I am a novice at most of this but fascinated and would love to contribute about 4 hours/week in the hope of learning and helping however possible. (Perhaps through research & documentation?) --[[User:André SC|André SC]] 20:30, 22 Jan 2006 (GMT)(PS. Now have at least one freelance client who wants a document repository style CMS site, looks like I'll be able to afford more time on this. :- )--[[User:André SC|André SC]] 18:21, 23 Jan 2006 (GMT))
* [[User:jenz|Jennifer Zelazny]], jzelazny[at]sandboxdev[dot]com: I have been using WordPress as a CMS for my personal web site for almost a year now and would love to help with this!
*I used WP as a CMS quite a bit (clp[at]siolon[dot]com).  Let me know if I can help. [[User:Cpoteet|Chris Poteet]]
* [[User:ckelly5|Chris Kelly]], ckelly5[at]gmail[dot]com: I've been looking for an opportunity to contribute to wordpress and improve my php, as well as improve WPs static page support (and possibly page-based frontpages. Count me in for 2-4 hours/ week to start!
* [[User:ApiDevlab|api-devlab]] 08:50, 27 Jan 2006 (GMT) Lots of experience with WP since the early days, can help out in a few ways. Have already contributed to Codex etc so can spare a few hours per week, no probs.

===[[Testing/Feeds]]===
; Ensuring standards compliance; testing major aggregators; adding support for new standards; RSS, Atom, OPML, RSD, comment feeds, etc.
* [[User:Nominoc|Tom]], &#104;&#101;&#108;&#108;&#111;&#064;&#110;&#111;&#109;&#105;&#110;&#111;&#099;&#046;&#099;&#111;&#109;, I've been involved with several people over at Harvard who are setting standards for RSS 2.0. I will be glad to work anytime during the week and the weekends.
* [[User:Yngwin|Yngwin]] aka Ben de Groot: I am very concerned Atom 1.0 support didn't make it into WP 2.0, so I am definitely willing to help out with developing, coding and testing Atom 1.0 feeds.
* [[User:Danny Ayers|Danny]] (.ayers@gmail.com) I'm willing to help in relation to feeds and related alternate representations. I'm familiar with RSS, Atom, RDF but not done much PHP. (Some improved kind of modularization/abstraction of the feed provision was suggested on-list, sounds reasonable, should also make Semantic Web-friendly provision of e.g. category info much easier).

===[[Testing/Uploading, File Management, and Media]]===
; Folder and file permissions; testing upload of different files; thumbnail creation and media support; attachment browsing and management; enclosure types; MIME support.
* [[User:Ttech5593|Joe]] 00:49, 21 Jan 2006 (GMT) : If you wanted I could help here a little. I know how to get a FM working with WP and will be glad to work, but I can't program in PHP. Also I'll help with upload and file management with WP.(1-2 Hours at least a  week)

===[[Testing/Link Manager]]===
; OPML export and import; display functionality; UI improvement.
* Mike little: [[User:MikeLittle|MikeLittle]] I orginally wrote the Link Manager. I should contribute more. I can volunteer 4 hours a week.

===[[Testing/Performance]]===
; Cache system; benchmarking; profiling and identifying bottlenecks; optimizations.
* Vincent Toms [[User:Vinnyt|Vinnyt]]  I've got several free hours a day I'd like to contribute.

===[[Testing/Design, Aesthetics (Shuttle), and Usability]]===
; Making WordPress "purdy"; typography; color coordination; intuitiveness.
* I'd like to be able to help out with that.  I can volunteer a few hours a week. --[[User:Raena|Raena]] 00:33, 20 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* [[User:Abhay|Abhay Kumar]] /a[at]abhaykumar[dot]net: Since there probably doesn't need much work here, I can offer a hour a week here.
* I can help out here an hour or so a week --[[User:Tunicwriter|Tunicwriter]] 10:12, 25 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* [[User:LightDifference|Light Diffference]], spartan.ii[at]mac[dot]com: I can help with this, maybe 2-3 hours a week max.

===[[Testing/Coding Standards]]===
; Ensuring WordPress' code is consistent, readable, and well-organized.
* I would like to continue the work I started with my [http://trac.wordpress.org/search?q=massive+code+cleanup&ticket=on Massive Code Cleanup] series of patches, as time permits. --[[User:MarkJaquith|MarkJaquith]] 00:42, 12 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* [[User:Abhay|Abhay Kumar]] - a[at]abhaykumar[dot]net: I've been trying to take [[User:MarkJaquith|Mark's]] cleanup to the next level with this but I'm not sure if my edits have been issues of optimization or cleanup. I guess I'll find out when I'm done. 

===[[Testing/Security]]===
; Regularly auditing user input and sanitation; responding to security reports; recommending best practices.

== Testing / QA ==
===[[Testing/Theme Testing]]===
; Ensuring major themes work well with the latest WP; browser testing; security / XSS testing in themes.
*I could help here for the localization part, to have theme fulli I18N collaborating with them developper.  I can dedicate several hours a week. *[[User:SteveAgl|SteveAgl]] 11:45, 12 Jan 2006 (GMT)
*Could do some theme work, also a new theme catalogue and a sample blog (I have enough webspace to accommodate a lot of themes) *[[User:Kcsefalvay|Kcsefalvay]] 15:42, 21 Jan 2006 (GMT)
*I could spare a couple of hours a week, and enough space and bandwidth to test out themes. --[[User:Stabani|Stabani]] 18:11, 29 Jan 2006 (GMT)

===[[Testing/Browser Testing]]===
; Testing Firefox, IE, Opera, and Safari against major WP functionality; documenting bugs; coding workarounds.
*I have a large variety of browsers which are built for Linux (including old versions), so I will continue to test nightlies and report inconsistencies and incompatibilities whenever time permits. I can use emulation to test under Safari and IE, but I have WinXP and an iMac at work. --[[User:schestowitz|schestowitz]] 3:38, 13 Jan 2006 (GMT) 
*I can help out here a few hours a week, I have a variety of browsers installed here on Windows as well as access to Macs, as well as experience with coding browser workarounds. --[[User:Tunicwriter|Tunicwriter]] 10:10, 25 Jan 2006 (GMT)

===[[Testing/PHP Environments]]===
; PHPsuexec; PHP CGI; PHP fcgi; PHP on Dreamhost, Yahoo, Textdrive; PHP on IIS; safe mode; PATH_INFO; etc.
*I can test on Dreamhost, test PHP fcgi, test PHP cgi. --[[User:SrHuevos|SrHuevos]] 02:19, 20 Jan 2006 (GMT) 
*[[User:Nominoc|Tom]], &#104;&#101;&#108;&#108;&#111;&#064;&#110;&#111;&#109;&#105;&#110;&#111;&#099;&#046;&#099;&#111;&#109;, I can help you guys test out using a couple of servers I own.

===[[Testing/MySQL Versions]]===
; 3.23; 4.0; 4.1; 5.0; 5.0 strict.
*[[User:Nominoc|Tom]], &#104;&#101;&#108;&#108;&#111;&#064;&#110;&#111;&#109;&#105;&#110;&#111;&#099;&#046;&#099;&#111;&#109;, I can help you guys test out using a couple of servers I own.
*[[User:Fusion94|Tony "fusion94" Guntharp]],  I can help you guys test out against various versions of MySQL.