{{Languages|
{{en|The Loop}}
{{fr|La Boucle}}
{{it|Il Loop}}
{{ja|The Loop}}
{{pt-br|O Loop}}
{{ru|Цикл WordPress}}
{{zh-cn|循环}}
{{zh-tw|迴圈}}
}}

__TOC__
'''The Loop''' is PHP code used by WordPress to display posts.  Using The Loop, WordPress processes each post to be displayed on the current page, and formats it according to how it matches specified criteria within The Loop tags.  Any [[Glossary#HTML|HTML]] or [[Glossary#PHP|PHP]] code in the Loop will be processed on each post. 

When WordPress documentation says "This tag must be within The Loop", such as for specific [[Template Tags|Template Tags]] or plugins, the tag will be repeated for each post. For example, The Loop displays the following information by default for each post: 
* Title (<tt>[[Template Tags/the_title|the_title()]]</tt>)
* Time (<tt>[[Template Tags/the_time|the_time()]]</tt>)
* Categories (<tt>[[Template Tags/the_category|the_category()]]</tt>).  

You can display other information about each post using the appropriate [[Template Tags]] or (for advanced users) by accessing the <tt>$post</tt> variable, which is set with the current post's information while The Loop is running.

For a beginner's look at The Loop, see [[The Loop in Action]].

== Using the Loop ==

The Loop should be placed in the [[Theme Development|Theme]]'s <tt>index.php</tt> and in any other Templates used to display post information. 

Be sure to include the call for the header template at the top of your [[Theme Development|Theme]]'s templates. If you are using The Loop inside your own design (and your own design is not a template), set <tt>WP_USE_THEMES</tt> to <tt>false</tt>:

<pre><?php define( 'WP_USE_THEMES', false ); get_header(); ?></pre>

The loop starts here:

 <?php if ( have_posts() ) : while ( have_posts() ) : the_post(); ?>

and ends here:

 <?php endwhile; else : ?>
 	&lt;p&gt;<?php esc_html_e( 'Sorry, no posts matched your criteria.' ); ?>&lt;/p&gt;
 <?php endif; ?>

This is using PHP's alternative syntax for control structures, and could also be expressed as:

 <?php 
 if ( have_posts() ) {
 	while ( have_posts() ) {
 		the_post(); 
 		//
 		// Post Content here
 		//
 	} // end while
 } // end if
 ?>

== Loop Examples ==

=== Style Posts From Some Category Differently ===

This example displays each post with its Title (which is used as a link to the Post's [[Using Permalinks|Permalink]]), Categories, and Content. It also allows posts in a category with Category ID '3' to be styled differently.  To accomplish this, the <tt>[[Function Reference/in_category|in_category()]]</tt> [[Template Tags|Template Tag]] is used. Read the comments carefully to see what each part of the code is doing.

 <nowiki>
 <!-- Start the Loop. -->
 <?php if ( have_posts() ) : while ( have_posts() ) : the_post(); ?>

 	<!-- Test if the current post is in category 3. -->
 	<!-- If it is, the div box is given the CSS class "post-cat-three". -->
 	<!-- Otherwise, the div box is given the CSS class "post". -->

 	<?php if ( in_category( '3' ) ) : ?>
 		<div class="post-cat-three">
 	<?php else : ?>
 		<div class="post">
 	<?php endif; ?>


 	<!-- Display the Title as a link to the Post's permalink. -->

 	<h2><a href="<?php the_permalink(); ?>" rel="bookmark" title="Permanent Link to <?php the_title_attribute(); ?>"><?php the_title(); ?></a></h2>


 	<!-- Display the date (November 16th, 2009 format) and a link to other posts by this posts author. -->

 	<small><?php the_time('F jS, Y'); ?> by <?php the_author_posts_link(); ?></small>


 	<!-- Display the Post's content in a div box. -->

 	<div class="entry">
 		<?php the_content(); ?>
 	</div>


 	<!-- Display a comma separated list of the Post's Categories. -->

 	<p class="postmetadata"><?php _e( 'Posted in' ); ?> <?php the_category( ', ' ); ?></p>
 	</div> <!-- closes the first div box -->


 	<!-- Stop The Loop (but note the "else:" - see next line). -->

 <?php endwhile; else : ?>


 	<!-- The very first "if" tested to see if there were any Posts to -->
 	<!-- display.  This "else" part tells what do if there weren't any. -->
 	<p><?php esc_html_e( 'Sorry, no posts matched your criteria.' ); ?></p>


 	<!-- REALLY stop The Loop. -->
 <?php endif; ?></nowiki>

'''Note:''' All [[Glossary#HTML|HTML]] code must be ''outside'' the <tt><?php &nbsp;?></tt> tags.  And, [[Glossary#PHP|PHP]] code (even things as simple as curly braces: <tt>}</tt> ) must be ''inside'' the <tt><?php &nbsp;?></tt> tags.  You can start and stop blocks of PHP code to intersperse HTML code within <tt>if</tt> and <tt>else</tt> statements, as shown in the above example.

=== Exclude Posts From Some Category ===

This example demonstrates how to hide a specific Category or Categories from being displayed.  In this case, posts from Categories 3 and 8 are excluded.  The example is different than the [[#Style Posts From Some Category Differently|example above]] in that it makes a change to the [[Template_Tags/query_posts|query]] itself.

 <nowiki>
 <?php $query = new WP_Query( 'cat=-3,-8' ); ?>
 <?php if ( $query->have_posts() ) : while ( $query->have_posts() ) : $query->the_post(); ?>

 <div class="post">
 
 <!-- Display the Title as a link to the Post's permalink. -->
 <h2><a href="<?php the_permalink() ?>" rel="bookmark" title="Permanent Link to <?php the_title_attribute(); ?>"><?php the_title(); ?></a></h2>

 <!-- Display the date (November 16th, 2009 format) and a link to other posts by this posts author. -->
 <small><?php the_time( 'F jS, Y' ); ?> by <?php the_author_posts_link(); ?></small>
 
  <div class="entry">
  	<?php the_content(); ?>
  </div>

  <p class="postmetadata"><?php esc_html_e( 'Posted in' ); ?> <?php the_category( ', ' ); ?></p>
 </div> <!-- closes the first div box -->

 <?php endwhile; 
 wp_reset_postdata();
 else : ?>
 <p><?php esc_html_e( 'Sorry, no posts matched your criteria.' ); ?></p>
 <?php endif; ?></nowiki>

'''Note''': If you use this example for your main page, you should use a different [[Templates|Template]] for your [[Category Templates|Category archives]]; otherwise, WordPress will exclude all posts in Category 3 and Category 8, even when viewing that Category Archive!  However, if you want to use the same template file, you can avoid this by using the <tt>[[Function_Reference/is_home|is_home()]]</tt> tag to ensure that posts from Category 3 and Category 8 will only be excluded from the main page:  
 ...
 <?php if ( is_home() ) {
 $query = new WP_Query( 'cat=-3,-8' );
 if ( $query->have_posts() ) : while ( $query->have_posts() ) : $query->the_post(); 
 } else {
 ...
 ?>
 ...
There are other [[Conditional Tags]] that can be used to control the output depending on whether or not a particular condition is true with respect to the requested page.

==Object orientation==

Loops are a combination of object oriented and global behaviour. This is confusing at first. 

The two important global variables for loops are:
* <tt>$wp_query</tt> which is an object of class <tt>[[Class_Reference/WP_Query|WP_Query]]</tt>, holding a WP database '''query result''' amongst which <tt>$wp_query->posts</tt>, an array of individual <tt>[[Class_Reference/WP_Post|WP_Post]]</tt>s.
* <tt>[[Function_Reference/$post|$post]]</tt> which is the current object of class <tt>[[Class_Reference/WP_Post|WP_Post]]</tt>

<tt>[[Function_Reference/have_posts|have_posts()]]</tt> and <tt>[[Function_Reference/the_post|the_post()]]</tt> are global functions calling the corresponding <tt>[[Class_Reference/WP_Query|$wp_query->have_posts()]]</tt> and <tt>[[Class_Reference/WP_Query|$wp_query->the_post()]]</tt> methods of the <tt>$wp_query</tt> global variable.

<tt>[[Function_Reference/the_post|the_post()]]</tt> looks like a template tag, but it isn't. It does not produce output, but instead changes the state of the <tt>$wp_query</tt> and <tt>[[Function_Reference/$post|$post]]</tt> global variables: <tt>[[Function_Reference/the_post|the_post()]]</tt> tells WordPress to move to the next post. It changes <tt>$wp_query->current</tt>_position, and initialises the <tt>[[Function_Reference/$post|$post]]</tt> global variable to the next post contained in <tt>$wp_query->posts</tt> array.

'''Remember:''' All the template tags rely on the <tt>[[Function_Reference/$post|$post]]</tt> global variable by default and the <tt>[[Function_Reference/$post|$post]]</tt> global variable is set/modified by <tt>[[Function_Reference/the_post|the_post()]]</tt>, which gets its data from the <tt>$wp_query</tt> global variable. <tt>[[Function_Reference/$post|$post]]</tt> is also set/modified by <tt>WP_Query::the_post()</tt> as used in secondary loops.

==Multiple Loops==

This section deals with advanced use of The Loop.  It's a bit technical, but don’t let that scare you.  We’ll start with an easy example and work up from there. With a little common sense, patience, and enthusiasm, you too can do multiple loops.

First off, why would one want to use multiple loops? In general, the answer is that you might want to do <i>something</i> with one group of posts, and do <i>something different</i> to another group of posts, <i>but display both groups on the same page</i>. "Something" could mean almost anything; you are only limited by your PHP skill and your imagination.  

We will get into examples below, but first you should read about the basics.  Take a look at the basic Loop.  It consists of:

 <?php if ( have_posts() ) : ?>
 	<?php while ( have_posts() ) : the_post(); ?>    
 	&lt;!-- do stuff ... --&gt;
 	<?php endwhile; ?>
 <?php endif; ?>

In English (PHP types and people familiar with code speak can skip to below), the above would be read:  If we are going to be displaying posts, then get them, one at a time.  For each post in the list, display it according to <tt>&lt;!-- do stuff ... --&gt;</tt>.  When you hit the last post, stop.  The <tt>do stuff</tt> line(s), are template dependent.  

A little aside on <tt>Do stuff</tt>:  in this example it is simply a placeholder for a bunch of code that determines how to format and display each post on a page.  This code can change depending on how you want your WordPress to look.   If you look at the Kubrick theme’s index.php the <tt>do stuff</tt> section would be everything below:

 <?php while ( have_posts() ) : the_post(); ?>
To above:

 <?php comments_popup_link( 'No Comments &#187;', '1 Comment &#187;', '% Comments &#187;' ); ?>

An explanation for the coders out there:
The <tt>have_posts()</tt> and <tt>the_post()</tt> are convenience wrappers around the global <tt>$wp_query</tt> object, which is where all of the action is.  The <tt>$wp_query</tt> is called in the blog header and fed query arguments coming in through <tt>GET</tt> and <tt>PATH_INFO</tt>.  The <tt>$wp_query</tt> takes the arguments and builds and executes a DB query that results in an array of posts.  This array is stored in the object and also returned back to the blog header where it is stuffed into the global <tt>$posts</tt> array (for backward compatibility with old post loops).

Once WordPress has finished loading the blog header and is descending into the template, we arrive at our post Loop.  The <tt>have_posts()</tt> simply calls into <tt>$wp_query->have_posts()</tt> which checks a loop counter to see if there are any posts left in the post array.  And <tt>the_post()</tt> calls <tt>$wp_query->the_post()</tt> which advances the loop counter and sets up the global <tt>$post</tt> variable as well as all of the global post data.  Once we have exhausted the loop, <tt>have_posts()</tt> will return false and we are done.

==== Loop Examples====

Below are three examples of using multiple loops.  The key to using multiple loops is that <tt>$wp_query</tt> can only be called once.  In order to get around this it is possible to re-use the query by calling <tt>rewind_posts()</tt> or by creating a new query object.  This is covered in example 1.  In example 2, using a variable to store the results of a query is covered.  Finally, ‘multiple loops in action’ brings a bunch of ideas together to document one way of using multiple loops to promote posts of a certain category on your blog’s homepage.

=====Multiple Loops Example 1=====

In order to loop through the same query a second time, call <tt>rewind_posts()</tt>.  This will reset the loop counter and allow you to do another loop.  

 <?php rewind_posts(); ?>
  
 <?php while ( have_posts() ) : the_post(); ?>
 	&lt;!-- Do stuff... --&gt;
 <?php endwhile; ?>

If you are finished with the posts in the original query, and you want to use a different query, you can reuse the <tt>$wp_query</tt> object by calling <tt>query_posts()</tt> and then ''looping back'' through.  The <tt>query_posts()</tt> will perform a new query, build a new posts array, and reset the loop counter.

 // Get the last 10 posts in the special_cat category.
 <?php query_posts( 'category_name=special_cat&posts_per_page=10' ); ?>
 
 <?php while ( have_posts() ) : the_post(); ?>
 	&lt;!-- Do special_cat stuff... --&gt;
 <?php endwhile; ?>

If you need to keep the original query around, you can create a new query object.

 <?php $my_query = new WP_Query( 'category_name=special_cat&posts_per_page=10' ); ?>
 
 <?php while ( $my_query->have_posts() ) : $my_query->the_post(); ?>
 	&lt;!-- Do special_cat stuff... --&gt;
 <?php endwhile; ?>

The query object <tt>my_query</tt> is used because you cannot use the global <tt>have_posts()</tt> and <tt>the_post()</tt> since they both use <tt>$wp_query</tt>.  Instead, call into your new <tt>$my_query</tt> object.

=====Multiple Loops Example 2=====

Another version of using multiple Loops takes another tack for getting around the inability to use <tt>have_posts()</tt> and <tt>the_post()</tt>.  To solve this, you need to store the original query in a variable, then re-assign it with the other Loop. This way, you can use all the standard functions that rely on all the globals.

For example:

 // going off on my own here
 <?php $temp_query = $wp_query; ?>
 &lt;!-- Do stuff... --&gt;
 
 <?php query_posts( 'category_name=special_cat&posts_per_page=10' ); ?>
 
 <?php while ( have_posts() ) : the_post(); ?>
 	&lt;!-- Do special_cat stuff... --&gt;
 <?php endwhile; ?>
 
 // now back to our regularly scheduled programming
 <?php $wp_query = $temp_query; ?>

'''Note:''' In PHP 5, objects are referenced with the "= clone" operator instead of "=" like in PHP 4. To make Example 2 work in PHP 5 you need to use the following code:

 // going off on my own here
 <?php $temp_query = clone $wp_query; ?>
 &lt;!-- Do stuff... --&gt;
 
 <?php query_posts( 'category_name=special_cat&posts_per_page=10' ); ?>
 
 <?php while ( have_posts() ) : the_post(); ?>
 	&lt;!-- Do special_cat stuff... --&gt;
 <?php endwhile; ?>
 <?php endif; ?>
 
 // now back to our regularly scheduled programming
 <?php $wp_query = clone $temp_query; ?>

However, this second example does not work in WordPress 2.1.

====Multiple Loops in Action====

The best way to understand how to use multiple loops is to actually show an example of its use.  Perhaps the most common use of multiple loops is to show two (or more) lists of posts on one page.  This is often done when a webmaster wants to feature not only the very latest post written, but also posts from a certain category.

Leaving all formatting and CSS issues aside, let us assume we want to have two lists of posts.  One which would list the most recent posts (the standard 10 posts most recently added), and another which would contain only one post from the category ‘featured’.  Posts in the ‘featured’ category should be shown first, followed by the second listing of posts (the standard).  <b>The catch is that no post should appear in both categories.</b>

<b>Step 1.</b>  Get only one post from the ‘featured’ category.

 <?php $my_query = new WP_Query( 'category_name=featured&posts_per_page=1' );
 while ( $my_query->have_posts() ) : $my_query->the_post();
 $do_not_duplicate = $post->ID; ?>
 	&lt;!-- Do stuff... --&gt;
 <?php endwhile; ?>

In English the above code would read: 

Set <tt>$my_query</tt> equal to the result of querying all posts where the category is named featured and by the way, get me one post only. Also, set the variable <tt>$do_not_duplicate</tt> equal to the ID number of the single post returned.  Recall that the <tt>Do stuff</tt> line represents all the formatting options associated for the post retrieved.

Note that we will need the value of <tt>$do_not_duplicate</tt> in the next step to ensure that the same post doesn't appear in both lists.    

<b>Step 2</b>.  The second loop, get the X latest posts (except one).

The following code gets X recent posts (as defined in WordPress preferences) save the one already displayed from the first loop and displays them according to <tt>Do stuff</tt>.

 <?php if ( have_posts() ) : while ( have_posts() ) : the_post(); 
 if ( $post->ID == $do_not_duplicate ) continue;?>
 	&lt;!-- Do stuff... --&gt;
 <?php endwhile; endif; ?>

In English the above code would read: 

Get all posts, where a post equals <tt>$do_not_duplicate</tt> then just do nothing (<tt>continue</tt>), otherwise display all the other the posts according to <tt>Do stuff</tt>.  Also, update the cache so the tagging and keyword plugins play nice.  Recall, <tt>$do_not_duplicate</tt> variable contains the ID of the post already displayed.

<b>The End Result</b>

Here is what the final piece of code looks like <i>without any formatting</i>:

 <?php $my_query = new WP_Query( 'category_name=featured&posts_per_page=1' );
 while ( $my_query->have_posts() ) : $my_query->the_post();
 $do_not_duplicate = $post->ID; ?>
 	&lt;!-- Do stuff... --&gt;
 <?php endwhile; ?>
 	&lt;!-- Do other stuff... --&gt;
 <?php if ( have_posts() ) : while ( have_posts() ) : the_post(); 
 if ( $post->ID == $do_not_duplicate ) continue; ?>
 	&lt;!-- Do stuff... --&gt;
 <?php endwhile; endif; ?>

The end result would be a page with two lists.  The first list contains only one post -- the most recent post from the 'feature' category.  The second list will contain X recent posts (as defined in WordPress preferences) <i>except</i> the post that is already shown in the first list.  So, once the feature post is replaced with a new one, the previous feature will show up in standard post list section below (depending on how many posts you choose to display and on the post frequency).  This technique (or similar) has been used by many in conjunction with knowledge of the [http://codex.WordPress.org/Template_Hierarchy Template Hierarchy] to create a different look for home.php and index.php.  See associated resources at the bottom of this page.

<b>Note for Multiple Posts in the First Category</b>

If posts_per_page=2 or more, you will need to alter the code a bit.  The variable <tt>$do_not_duplicate</tt> needs to be changed into an array as opposed to a single value.  Otherwise, the first loop will finish and the variable <tt>$do_not_duplicate</tt> will equal only the id of the latest post.  This will result in duplicated posts in the second loop.  To fix the problem replace
 
 <?php $my_query = new WP_Query( 'category_name=featured&amp;posts_per_page=1' );
 while ( $my_query->have_posts() ) : $my_query->the_post();
 $do_not_duplicate = $post->ID; ?>

with

 <?php $my_query = new WP_Query( 'category_name=featured&amp;posts_per_page=2' );
 while ( $my_query->have_posts() ) : $my_query->the_post();
 $do_not_duplicate[] = $post->ID; ?>

Note that "posts_per_page" can be any number.
This changes <tt>$do_not_duplicate</tt> into an array.  Then replace
 
 <?php if ( have_posts() ) : while ( have_posts() ) : the_post(); 
 if ( $post->ID == $do_not_duplicate ) continue; ?>

with

 <?php if ( have_posts() ) : while ( have_posts() ) : the_post(); 
 if ( in_array( $post->ID, $do_not_duplicate ) ) continue; ?>

Where you continue the pattern for whatever posts_per_page is set equal to (2 in this case).

Alternatively you can pass the entire <tt>$do_not_duplicate</tt> array to <tt>$wp_query</tt> and only entries that match your criteria will be returned:
 
 <?php query_posts( array( 'post__not_in' => $do_not_duplicate ) );
 if ( have_posts() ) : while ( have_posts() ) : the_post(); ?> 

Note that instead of a string, the query parameter was an associative array setting the <tt>post__not_in</tt> option.

== Nested Loops ==
Nesting loops means that you are running a second loop before finishing the first one. This can be useful to display a post list with a [[Shortcode API|shortcode]] for example.

 $my_query = new WP_Query( 'cat=3' );
 if ( $my_query->have_posts() ) { 
 	while ( $my_query->have_posts() ) { 
 		$my_query->the_post();
 		the_content();
 	}
 }
 wp_reset_postdata();

It is necessary to reset the main loop data after a nested loop so that some global variables hold the correct values again.

==Sources==
The section on multiple loops is a combination of [http://boren.nu Ryan Boren] and [http://www.alexking.org Alex King's] [http://comox.textdrive.com/pipermail/hackers/2005-January/003578.html discussion] about the Loop on the [[Mailing Lists#Hackers|Hackers Mailing List]]. The nested loops example was inspired by [http://lists.automattic.com/pipermail/wp-hackers/2010-May/032064.html another discussion] on the mailing list and a post by [http://www.nkuttler.de/2010/05/30/wordpress-loop-inside-a-loop/ Nicolas Kuttler].

==Resources==
* [http://generatewp.com/wp_query/ WordPress WP_Query Generator]
* [http://www.slideshare.net/mitcho/getting-into-the-loop Getting Into The Loop] - (slides) an introduction to how plugins and themes can modify the Loop
* [http://web-profile.net/wordpress/themes/wordpress-custom-loop/ WordPress Custom Loop]

==Related==
To learn more about the WordPress Loop, and the various template tags that work only within the Loop, here are more resources:

===More About The Loop===
* Article: [[The Loop in Action]]
* Article: [[Template Tags]]
* Article: [[Templates|Using the Loop in Template Files]]

{{Query Tags}}


[[Category:Design and Layout]]
[[Category:Advanced Topics]]
{{Copyedit}}
[[Category:UI Link]]