{{Languages|
{{en|Theme Unit Test}}
{{ja|Theme Unit Test}}
{{es|Prueba Unitaria de Temas}}
}}

<small>(Last Edited: '''{{REVISIONYEAR}}-{{REVISIONMONTH}}-{{REVISIONDAY}}''')</small>

This step in [[Theme_Development#Theme_Testing_Process|Theme testing]] correlates to a WordPress export (WXR) file that you can import into a WordPress installation to test your Theme. To be clear, this is only one step in testing your Theme. See [[Theme_Development#Theme_Testing_Process|Theme testing]] for a full guide.

== Setup ==

=== Test Environment Setup ===
# Clone the theme test data file <code>themeunittestdata.wordpress.xml</code> from the GitHub repository https://github.com/WPTRT/theme-unit-test (last updated 14/April/2019).
Or Download a copy from https://raw.githubusercontent.com/WPTRT/theme-unit-test/master/themeunittestdata.wordpress.xml
# Import test data into your WordPress install by going to Tools => Import => WordPress
# Select the XML file from your computer 
# Click on "Upload file and import".
# Under "Import Attachments," check the "Download and import file attachments" box and click submit.<br />Note: you may have to repeat the Import step until you see "All Done" to obtain the full list of Posts and Media.
# Read [https://make.wordpress.org/themes/handbook/get-involved/become-a-reviewer/ Becoming a reviewer], and follow the easy steps.

==== Test Environment Installer Package  ====
If you want to have famous 5 minute installation package for theme unit test environment, you can find it here: https://github.com/Evinceknow/Theme-Unit-Test-Environment-for-WordPress. Setup it as WordPress main installation package.   

==== I18N Test Data ====
- [https://github.com/jawordpressorg/theme-test-data-ja Japanese Test Data]

=== WordPress Settings ===
Adjust WordPress settings as follows:
* Settings -> General: set the Site Title to something fairly long, and set the Tagline to something even longer. These settings will facilitate testing how the Theme handles these values.
* Settings -> Reading: set "Blog pages show at most" to 5. This setting will ensure that index/archive pagination is triggered.
* Settings -> Discussion: enable Threaded Comments, at least 3 levels deep. This setting will facilitate testing of Theme comment list styling.
* Settings -> Discussion: enable Break comments into pages, and set 5 comments per page. This setting will facilitate testing of Theme paginating link markup/styling.
* Settings -> Media: ensure that no values are set for max width or height of Embedded media. This setting will facilitate testing of the Theme $content_width setting/implementation. Note: If you are using the most recent version of WordPress, ignore this setting as it has been removed (https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/21719).
* Settings -> Permalinks: ensure that a non-default permalink setting is selected, e.g. "Month and name". This setting will facilitate stepping through the Theme Unit Tests.

Create at least two Custom Menus:
* Long Menu: all included Pages
* Short Menu: a menu of 2-3 Pages

== Template Hierarchy Index Pages ==

When viewing any Template Hierarchy Index page, including the default index page (<tt>index.php</tt>), and (''if applicable'') Blog Posts Index (<tt>home.php</tt>), Date Archives (<tt>archive.php</tt>), Category Archives (<tt>category.php</tt>), Tag Archives (<tt>tag.php</tt>), or Author Archives (<tt>author.php</tt>):
* Posts display correctly, with no apparent visual problems or errors.
* Posts display in correct order.
* Correct number of posts display (as per setting in ''Settings'' > ''Reading'').
* Page navigation displays and works correctly.
* Debugger returns no PHP errors, warnings, or notices.
* The browser reports no JavaScript errors.

== Static Front Page ==
If the Theme includes either a <tt>front-page.php</tt> or a <tt>home.php</tt> template file, go to Dashboard -> Settings -> Reading, and set the Front Page to display a Static Page (use any existing Page), and set the Blog Posts index to another Static Page (e.g. "Lorem Ipsum").
* The Front Page displays properly, and as intended
* The Blog Posts index page displays properly
* Debugger returns no PHP errors, warnings, or notices
* The browser reports no JavaScript errors

== 404 Page ==
* The 404 page displays properly
* Some content is displayed, more than merely the basic "Error 404 - Page Not Found" message - such as some helpful text, a search form, a list of Post or Pages, etc.
* Debugger returns no PHP errors, warnings, or notices
* The browser reports no JavaScript errors

== Search Results Page ==
* The Search Results page displays properly, with search query results displayed.
* Debugger returns no PHP errors, warnings, or notices
* The browser reports no JavaScript errors

== Blog Posts Index Page ==

Test the following posts when viewing the Blog Posts Index page. Post Titles in the test data correlate with section titles below.

=== Scheduled Post ===
* Should not be displayed by the Theme (status "scheduled", rather than "publish").

=== Draft Post ===
* Should not be displayed by the Theme (status "draft", rather than "publish").

=== Layout Test ===
* Displays properly as a "Sticky Post."
* Page navigation links display and work properly.

=== Readability Test ===
* Displays "Read More" link properly.
* "Read More" link works properly (links to single post at "More" tag location).

=== Post Format Tests (All) ===
* If Theme supports Post Format Type, Post displays as intended in the index view

=== Post Format Test: Gallery ===
* Gallery images display as intended in the index view

=== Post Format Test: Image (Linked) ===
* Image displays as intended in the index view
* Image does not overflow the content area

=== Post Format Test: Image (Attached) ===
* Image displays as intended in the index view
* Image does not overflow the content area

=== Post Format Test: Video ===
* Video displays as intended in the index view
* Video does not overflow the content area

=== This Post Has No Body ===
* Lack of body text should not adversely impact the layout.

=== (no title) ===
* Lack of post title should not adversely impact layout.
* Post permalink should be displayed. Making the post date a permalink is a great solution. See Twenty Ten for an example.

=== Many Categories & Many Tags ===
* Theme must incorporate both the "Tag" and the "Category" taxonomies in some manner.
* Large number of categories/tags should not adversely impact layout.

=== Protected Test With Secret Password ===
* Password form should be displayed.
* Post content should not be displayed.
* Comments should not be displayed.
* Once password is entered, post or excerpt displays properly.

== Single Post ==

Test the following posts when viewing a single post (<tt>single.php</tt>). Each section title matches a post title in the test data.

=== Layout Test ===
* Displays page navigation links properly.
* Page navigation links work properly (link to correct page).
* Post permalink links to Page 1.

'''Page 2'''
* Paragraphs are styled correctly.
* Left, Center, Right, Justify aligned paragraphs align properly.

'''Page 3'''
* <tt>h1</tt>-<tt>h6</tt> elements are styled (as appropriate).
* <tt>blockquote</tt>, <tt>cite</tt> styled (as appropriate).
** Block quotes should be indented or otherwise distinct from paragraph text.
** If the Theme uses a background image or quote symbol, make sure displays correctly on both short and long quotes.
* <tt>span</tt> with <tt>style</tt> and <tt>ASCII</tt> characters should display properly.
* <tt>table</tt>, <tt>tr</tt>, <tt>th</tt>, <tt>td</tt> are styled (as appropriate).
* <tt>dl</tt> (<tt>dt</tt>, <tt>dd</tt>), <tt>ul</tt>, <tt>ol</tt>, <tt>li</tt> styled (as appropriate).
** Nested lists should be indented correctly.
* The following HTML tags should be styled appropriately to ensure semantic meaning of each tag is preserved: <tt>address</tt>, <tt>a</tt>, <tt>big</tt>, <tt>cite</tt>, <tt>code</tt>, <tt>del</tt>, <tt>em</tt>, <tt>ins</tt>, <tt>kbd</tt>, <tt>pre</tt>, <tt>q</tt>, <tt>s</tt>, <tt>strong</tt>, <tt>sub</tt>, <tt>sup</tt>, <tt>tt</tt>, <tt>var</tt>.
** Note: <tt>abbr</tt> and <tt>acronym</tt> require no special styling. Also, <tt>s</tt> may be address but was deprected with HTML 4 and can be left with no special styling as well.
* <tt>div</tt>, <tt>span</tt> maintain proper block or inline display, and styled (as appropriate).

=== Readability Test ===
* The content should be generally readable.
* Styling should not negatively impact readability: foreground/background contrast, font family, font size, line height, paragraph width, paragraph spacing.

=== Images Test ===

'''Page 1'''
* Un-Captioned Image Alignment Tests
** Images are aligned properly: Center, Left, Right, None.
** Check caption styles on first image.
** Images should not have a border unless it's part of design.

'''Page 2'''
* Captioned Image Alignment Tests
** Images are aligned properly: Center, Left, Right, None.
** Check caption styles on first image.
** Images should not have a border unless it's part of design.

'''Page 3'''
* Other Image Tests
** Wide Image (Resized) Test
*** Image should display properly, and should be resized as specified.
*** Sidebar must not be pushed to the bottom of the page.
** Wide Image (Not Resized) Test
*** Wide image overflows properly (such as using <tt>max-width</tt> CSS rule or <tt>overflow</tt> CSS rule).
*** Sidebar must not be pushed below content due to image overlap.
** Thumbnails
*** Thumbnails display properly.

'''Page 4'''
* Floats are cleared properly for floated element (thumbnail image) at the end of the Post Content.

=== Post Format Tests (All) ===
* If Theme supports Post Format type, Post displays as intended in the single-post view.

=== Post Format Test: Gallery ===
* Gallery displays correctly (check for spacing after gallery).
* Gallery image thumbnails link to image post.

=== Post Format Test: Image (Linked) ===
* Image displays as intended in single-post view.
* Image does not overflow the content area.

=== Post Format Test: Image (Attached) ===
* Image displays as intended in single-post view.
* Image does not overflow the content area.

=== Post Format Test: Video ===
* Video embeds work.
* Embedded video does not push sidebar(s) below content due to overlap.
* <tt>$content_width</tt> should have an appropriate value defined.

=== Post Format Test: Audio ===
* Enclosure links work properly.

=== Post With Long Title ===
Long Post Title with long non-breaking string: '''If you say it loud enough, you’ll always sound precocious; Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious!'''
* Test title line height.
* Look for potential overflow issues if the theme has a small title area.

=== This Post Has No Body ===
* Post displays properly and should not impact the layout.

=== (no title) ===
* Post displays properly.
* A link to the singular view of the post is recommended to be displayed. Making the post date a permalink (see Twenty Ten for an example) is a great solution.

=== Many Categories / Many Tags ===
* Theme incorporates both the "Tag" and "Category" taxonomies in some manner.
* Category links work correctly.
* Categories display properly without adversely impacting design.
* Tag links work correctly.
* Tags display properly without adversely impacting design.

=== Protected Test With Secret Password ===
* Password input form displays properly.
* When correct password (<tt>secret</tt>) is entered, the post and comments are displayed.

=== Comment Test ===
* Comments are displayed correctly.
* Threaded comments display correctly.
* Comment pagination displays correctly.
* Author comment is styled (as appropriate).
* User avatars are displayed properly.
* Comment form displays properly for both logged in/logged out users.
* When logged in as admin, edit links are displayed and work correctly.
* HTML is displayed properly in comments, especially lists and block quotes.

=== Comments Disabled ===
* Comment form does not display.
* "Comments are disabled" notice is displayed.

=== Many Trackbacks ===
* All trackbacks are displayed properly, with no overlap.

== Pages ==

Test the following pages (<tt>page.php</tt>) by viewing the page that matches the section titles below.

=== Page With Comments ===
* Tags, Categories, and Post date/time stamp should not be displayed.
* Comment list and comment reply form are displayed.

=== Page With Comments Disabled ===
* Comment list and comment reply form are not displayed.
* No "Comments Disabled" message should be displayed.
* Layout not adversely impacted by minimal page content.

=== Parent Page / Child Page 1 / Child Page 2 ===
* Extra credit for displaying parent and/or child when viewing pages within hierarchy.

=== Clearing Floats ===
* The last item in this page's content is a floated image. Make sure any elements after it are clearing properly.

== Misc Pages ==
Tests for <tt>search.php</tt> and <tt>404.php</tt>.

=== Search Results ===
* Search results page is helpful.
* Search query is displayed.

=== Not Found ===
* 404 page is present, and has helpful information.

== General ==

=== Menus ===
* Test with a large number of categories or pages in the menu, and test with multiple levels deep in the menus.
* If custom menus are enabled, test the layout both with custom menus enabled and with the fallback navigation menus (no custom menu enabled).

=== Widgets ===
* All widgets display correctly.
* The default WordPress widgets should work correctly in all widgetized areas.
* If the Theme uses custom widgets, they should work correctly. (Custom widgets are programmatically added by the Theme to the list of available widgets in Appearance > Widgets.)
* Test all available widgets in all available widgetized areas in the Theme layout.
* Content that appears in widgetized areas by default (hard-coded into the sidebar, for example) should disappear when widgets are enabled from Appearance > Widgets.

=== Screenshot ===
* The screenshot should accurately show the Theme design.
* Make sure it doesn't show customized header colors or an uploaded logo that wouldn't appear by default.

=== Anchor Text and Credit Links ===
Theme authors should only be using links that point directly to a website specifically for the theme; an appropriate website page for the theme; or a reasonably related URL giving more information about the theme. Using anchor text for search engine gains will not be accepted.

== Theme Testing ==

This Unit Test is just one step in Theme testing. Continue to [[Theme_Development#Theme_Testing_Process|Theme testing]] for the full guide.

== Related Pages ==
* [[Theme Development]]
* [[Theme Review]]

[[Category:Design and Layout]]
[[Category:WordPress Development]]
[[Category:UI Link]]<!-- linked from http://wordpress.org/extend/themes/about/ -->