{{Languages|
{{en|Theme Frameworks}}
{{pt-br|Frameworks de Temas}}
{{ja|テーマフレームワーク}}
}}

= What is a theme framework?=

Frameworks are for theme developers. They offer a set of standards  for theme developers to use in creating their own themes. They’re a set of functions/features created to aid development.

== How Frameworks Work? ==

*Frameworks come packaged within a single folder.
*Developers drop the framework folder into a new parent theme and load the framework.
*Users create a child theme based on the parent theme to house their customizations, allowing both the framework and parent theme to be updated.

Some examples of such frameworks include:

* [https://github.com/crowdfavorite/wp-carrington-core Carrington Core]
* [https://github.com/wponion/wponion/ WPOnion Framework]
* [http://gantry.org/ Gantry Framework]
* [http://themehybrid.com/hybrid-core Hybrid Core]
* [http://www.getbeans.io Beans Theme Framework]
* [https://github.com/devinsays/options-framework-theme Options Framework]
* [https://github.com/sy4mil/Options-Framework SMOF]
* [https://wordpress.org/plugins/unyson/ Unyson]
* [https://github.com/LiftUX/UpThemes-Framework UpThemes Framework]
* [http://vafpress.com/vafpress-framework Vafpress Framework]
* [http://nk2580.github.io/WordSmith/ WordSmith]
* [https://github.com/CherryFramework/cherry-framework Cherry]
* [https://typerocket.com/ TypeRocket Framework]

Commercial framework examples:
* [http://codestarframework.com/ Codestar Framework]
* [http://www.studiopress.com/ Genesis Framework]

== Functionality Included in Theme Frameworks ==

Some Theme Frameworks will include pre-defined code to facilitate further Theme development, such as:
* Custom functions to be used in the Theme
* Custom action hooks used in the Theme template
* Custom filter hooks used to output Theme content
* Theme options page integration
* Custom callbacks for [[Plugin_API/Hooks|core WordPress action and filter hooks]]
* Script library integration and functionality, e.g. jQuery sliders

==Recommended reading==
* [http://justintadlock.com/archives/2010/08/16/frameworks-parent-child-and-grandchild-themes Frameworks? Parent, child, and grandchild themes?]
* [http://themeshaper.com/functions-php-wordpress-child-themes/ How I used a WordPress Child Theme To Redesign My Blog The Smart Way]
* [http://justintadlock.com/archives/2008/12/24/why-i-created-a-wordpress-theme-framework Why I created a WordPress theme framework]
* [http://lorelle.wordpress.com/2008/12/30/parentchild-themes-in-wordpress-the-future-of-wordpress-themes/ Parent/Child Themes in WordPress: The Future of WordPress Themes]
* [http://extralogical.net/2008/08/theme-inheritance/ Theme Inheritance] 
* [http://op111.net/53 How to make a “child theme” for WordPress. A pictorial introduction for beginners]

[[Category:Design and Layout]]