Some WordPress translation teams choose to use launchpad.net as their
translation tool.  The WordPress project on Launchpad is here:

   https://launchpad.net/wordpress

So let's say your WordPress localization team wants to use Launchpad.
You've got your localization team set up.  What next?

1. Make sure each of your translators has a Launchpad account.  On the
front page of launchpad.net you'll see a very prominent link to where
you can register.  Try searching for your name first though.  It is
possible that the system already knows about you, even if you've never
actually registered yourself.  In that case you should be able to claim
the existing account.

2. Register a team on Launchpad.  You do this from the same "Register"
section of Launchpad.  If you translate to French (language code "fr"),
a good name for the team would be "wordpress-fr" and "WordPress French
Translators" would be a good display name.

3. Once you have created your team, you'll see an "Add member" link in
the actions menu on the side of the page.  Use that to add each of your
translators to the team.  Only members of this team will be able to
edit the translations.

4. Sign your team up for the WordPress translation group on Launchpad.
Only members of this translation group will be able to access WordPress
translations in Launchpad.  It is managed by Nikolay Bachiyski; approach
him directly or on the wp-polyglots mailing list, and ask him to add
your team to the group.  Give him the exact name of your team in
Launchpad, and the language that you translate to.

5. Start translating!  If you go back to the WordPress project page,
you'll see several release series.  Pick the series you want to work on
and click on the Translations tab.  You'll see options to upload and
download translations, and you can click through to your language to
edit translations in the browser.

To share your translations with the world, use the "Download
translations" option.  This will produce regular gettext translation
files that you can submit to the WordPress site.