== Version 2.9 ==
Released: February 21, 2019

* Add escaping to the pingback URL. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/43717 #43717])

== Version 2.8==
Released: January 9, 2019

* Correct `px` and `em` order in the blocks.css. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45794 #45794])
* Make sure button blocks respect the default rounded style, as well as the squared and outline options. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45541 #45541])
* Bump version numbers of updated scripts and stylesheets to prevent caching. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45679 #45679])

== Version 2.7 ==
Released: December 19, 2018

* Update styles so button blocks will apply theme's custom colors. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45432 #45432])
* Correct block appender appearance in block editor. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45450 #45450])
* Remove the term "Gutenberg" from code comments and editor styles. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45452 #45452])

== Version 2.6 ==
Released: December 6, 2018

* Add front end styles, editor styles and a custom color palette for the new block-based editor. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45040 #45040] and [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45240 #45240]) 
* Add theme support for responsive block embeds. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45274 #45274])

== Version 2.5 ==
Released: May 17, 2018

* Code is Poetry. WordPress' code just... wasn't. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/41057 #41057])
* Add link to privacy policy page in footer. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/43715 #43715])
* Comments: Move comment consent input outside the label for a11y. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/43436 #43436])

== Version 2.4 ==
Released: November 14, 2017
 
* Remove "called called" and "can can" dittography. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/41836 #41836])
* Change tag cloud format to a list (ul) for better semantics and accessibility. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/40138 #40138])
* Make sure new gallery widgets look good in themes. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/41969 #41969])

== Version 2.3 ==
Released: June 8, 2017

* Improve styles for 4.8 widgets. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/40745 #40745])

== Version 2.2 ==
Released: December 6, 2016

* Add preconnect to fonts.gstatic.com. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/37171 #37171])

== Version 2.1 ==
Released: August 15, 2016

* Remove .pot files from Default Themes. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/34884 #34884])
* Update theme tags. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/37426 #37426])

== Version 2.0 ==
Released: April 12, 2016

* Standardize on "front end"/"back end" (noun) and "front-end"/"back-end". ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/34887 #34887])
* Use selective refresh to preview changes to site title and tagline in core themes. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/27355 #27355])
* Require opt-in for selective refresh of widgets. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/27355 #27355])

== Version 1.9 ==
Released: December 8, 2015

* Correct license information in readme.txt. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/33590 #33590])

== Version 1.8 ==
Released August 18, 2015

* Fix content skip link appearance. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/32232 #32232])
* Add readme file to explain basic theme usage, link to changelog in Codex, and include license information. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31814 #31814])
* Use https for Google API external libraries. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/32552 #32552])

== Version 1.7 ==
Released April 23, 2015

* Fix escaping and minor code style issues ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/29127 #29127])
* Fill in support for `screen-reader-text` class ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31095 #31095])
* Replace current() with reset(), which is guaranteed to be the first item ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31259 #31259], [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31260 #31260])
* Update CSS rules for `.screen-reader-text` to be consistent with current accessibility guidelines ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31279 #31279])
* Use SSL for theme and author URIs ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31699 #31699])
* Add trailing slashes to theme URIs to avoid a redirect ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31839 #31839])

== Version 1.6 ==
Released: December 18, 2014

* Fix widget stacking problem in older IE browsers for Front Page template. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/28938 #28938])
* Menu on touch devices: fix jQuery selector for menu items with submenus. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/24767 #24767])
* Use proper way to get customizer settings values.([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/29577 #29577])
* Improve keyboard accessibility on Custom Header and Custom Background screen. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/29289 #29289])
* Change instances of "Theme Customizer" to just "Customizer", as the Customizer isn't necessarily theme-specific. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/29947 #29947])
* Add an alt attribute with the site title for header images linked to the home page. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/15926 #15926])
* Use HTTPS URLs for core.trac.wordpress.org. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/27115 #27115])
* Prevent the arrow in "Continue reading" links from wrapping to a second line. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/27908 #27908])

== Version 1.5 ==
Released: September 4, 2014

* Make small-screen menu accessible to keyboard commands and voice-driven software by using a focusable button element rather than `h3` for the toggle element. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/28224 #28224])
* Bump JS version. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/24767 #24767])
* Make submenu links work correctly on tablets. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/24767 #24767])
* Avoid a PHP notice in bundled themes if no images were found. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/28361 #28361])
* Use correct logic in IE conditional comments in header template. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/28151 #28151])
* Prevent 'Page %s' from being added to page title on 404 error pages. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/16468 #16468])

== Version 1.4 ==
Released: May 8, 2014

* On attachment pages for audio and video, display players. Currently, only a link is displayed. Add minimal CSS rules for compatibility. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/27243 #27243])
* In `prepend_attachment`, add logic to support attachment types that are not `image`. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/27243 #27243])
* In `get_post_class()`, don't add the `has-post-thumbnail` class for attachment pages. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/27243 #27243])
* Improve menu navigation for keyboard and voice-over interactions by properly focusing on submenu items when they are open. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/24839 #24839])
* Remove doc block comments for `@return void`. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/27098 #27098])
* Style `select` element. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/27434 #27434])
* Remove unused `singular` selectors in print CSS block. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/26866 #26866])
* Don't print the featured image when viewing an attachment. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/27243 #27243])
* Update the HTML5 Shiv across the default themes to 3.7.0. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/26491 #26491])
* Use the 'display' filter for get_bloginfo( 'name' ) attached to the wp_title filter. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/26811 #26811])
* New screenshots at 880x660 to maximize theme goodness in the new theme viewer design. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/26159 #26159])
* Add and display new tags to highlight the ever-growing number of responsive themes available. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/21442 #21442])
* Implement Microsoft-specific `@viewport` rules for better responsive styling in Windows 8 "snapped" views. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/25888 #25888])

== Version 1.3 ==
Released: October 24, 2013

* Translator comments are special, make sure they are parsed properly. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/25256 #25256])
* Don't use /** docblocks for simple multiline comments. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/25256 #25256])
* Update code comments to reflect WP inline docs standards. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/25256 #25256])
* Spell out duplicate hook locations. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/ #25658])
* Use the correct body class for attachments in the IE stylesheet. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/25506 #25506])
* Use the correct body class for attachments where .single-attachment is only used when the attachment's parent is not a page. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/25506 #25506])
* Simplify header image check. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/25400 #25400])

== Version 1.2 ==
Released: August 1, 2013

* Load Google Font in the visual editor to improve user experience. [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/22499 #22499])
* Fix button active state to avoid a 2px shift. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/22825 #22825])
* Fix double featured images in Front Page Template. Show featured image in single page views. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/22943 #22943])
* Update post author comment markup and styles, improving hCard data parsing and simplifying styles.([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/23128 #23128])
* Better layout for floated image captions. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/23147 #23147])
* Remove unnecessary class values in posts navigation. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/23152 #23152])
* Properly style visited links in entries, widgets, and comment text. [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/23200 #23200])
* Clear center-aligned images properly. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/23244 #23244])
* Use .text() instead of .html() for blogname and blog description in Theme Customizer JavaScript handlers. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/23435 #23435])
* Better handling for cases where a background color is set to white or an empty value (like first run with no theme_mods set) and a background image is enabled, which resulted previously in a broken layout. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/23586 #23586])
* Enable live preview for Header Text Color in Theme Customizer. Change also removes an !important declaration (yay) in Custom Header CSS rules. Fix regression introduced in r23572, allow hide/show of Header Text in Customizer. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/23600 #23600])
* Improve Appearance > Header styles to match front end view better -- including loading special Google Font there. Add back missing space in CSS value. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/23790 #23790])
* Add identifier to style elements added by the theme. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/24033 #24033])
* Add .displaying-header-text to the default themes, as the Custom Header page toggles this class.  ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/24113 #24113])
* In editor-style.css change .mceWPnextpage to .mce-wp-nextpage to match the core fix for Chrome. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/24177 #24177])
* Fix minor indentation issues in CSS files (spaces to tabs). ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/24196 #24196])
* Remove the_title_attribute() title attributes where it duplicates the_title() in anchor text. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/24203 #24203])
* Remove /extend/ from Theme URI headers in default themes. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/24389 #24389])

== Version 1.1 ==
Released: December 11, 2012

Initial release.