== Version 2.7 ==
Released: December 19, 2018

* Fix visited link colors on button blocks using custom colors. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45434 #45434])
* Correct block appender appearance in block editor. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45450 #45450])
* Remove the term "Gutenberg" from code comments. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45452 #45452])

== Version 2.6 ==
Released: December 6, 2018

*Add front end styles, editor styles and a custom color palette for the new block-based editor. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45038 #45038] and [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45238 #45238])
* Add theme support for responsive block embeds. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45274 #45274])

== Version 2.5 ==
Released: May 17, 2018

* General: Fix some precision alignment formatting warnings. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/41057 #41057])
* Code is Poetry. WordPress' code just... wasn't. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/41057 #41057])
* Twenty Ten: Use global img contraint for captions. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42604 #42604])
* Restore <code>max-width</code> on <code>.wp-caption</code>. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42604 #42604])
* Add link to privacy policy page in footer. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/43715 #43715])
* Comments: Move comment consent input outside the label for a11y. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/43436 #43436])

== Version 2.4 ==
Released: November 14, 2017

* Remove "called called" and "can can" dittography. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/41836 #41836])
* Change tag cloud format to a list (ul) for better semantics and accessibility. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/40138 #40138])
* Make sure new gallery widgets look good in themes. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/41969 #41969])

== Version 2.3 ==
Released: June 8, 2017

* Improve styles for 4.8 widgets. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/40745 #40745])
* Introduce media widgets for images, audio, and video with extensible base for additional media widgets in the future. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/32417 #32417]), ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/39993 #39993]), ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/39994 #39994]), ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/39995 #39995]) 

== Version 2.2 ==
Released: August 15, 2016

* Update theme tags. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/37426 #37426])

== Version 2.1 ==
Released: December 8, 2015

* Correct license information in readme.txt. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/33590 #33590])

== Version 2.0 ==
Released August 18, 2015

* Add readme file to explain basic theme usage, link to changelog in Codex, and include license information. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31814 #31814])

== Version 1.9 ==
Released: April 23, 2015

* Fix escaping and minor code style issues ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/29127 #29127])
* Remove URLs from reset credits ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/30764 #30764])
* Replace current() with reset(), which is guaranteed to be the first item ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/ #31259], [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31260 #31260])
* Update CSS rules for `.screen-reader-text` to be consistent with current accessibility guidelines ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31279 #31279])
* Use SSL for theme and author URIs ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31699 #31699])
* Add trailing slashes to theme URIs to avoid a redirect ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31839 #31839])

== Version 1.8 ==
Released: December 18, 2014

* Add bottom margin to audio and video players. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/29146 #29146])
* Don't display modified excerpt link in wp-admin. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/30026 #30026])
* Prevent the arrow in "Continue reading" links from wrapping to a second line. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/27908 #27908])

== Version 1.7 ==
Released: September 4, 2014

* Avoid a PHP notice in bundled themes if no images were found. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/28361 #28361])
* Correct attribute escaping in the attachment template. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/28251 #28251])
* Prevent 'Page %s' from being added to page title on 404 error pages in bundled themes. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/16468 #16468])
* New screenshots at 880x660 to maximize theme goodness in the new theme viewer design. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/26159 #26159])
* Revert Twenty Ten's original screenshot. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/26459 #26459])
* If a theme only has a very-old-school 300px-wide screenshot (or narrower), don't stretch it. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/26459 #26459])
* Add and display new tags to highlight the ever-growing number of responsive themes available. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/21442 #21442])
* Spell out duplicate hook locations. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/ #25658])
* Don't use /** docblocks for simple multiline comments. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/25256 #25256])
* Update code comments to reflect WP inline docs standards. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/25256 #25256])
* (Theme folder moved to ) New develop.svn.wordpress.org repository based on the old core.svn repository. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/24976 #24976])

== Version 1.6 ==
August 1, 2013

* Fix style element ID attribute value,. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/24033 #24033])
* Add helpful descriptions to widget areas. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/15401 #15401])
* Improve how gallery image IDs are retrieved for use in the Gallery post format template. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/23617 #23617])
* Remove the_title_attribute() title attributes where it duplicates the_title() in anchor text. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/24203 #24203])
* Change gallery category post meta output to check for a "gallery" category using get_term_by() to avoid a possible WP_Error for an empty result by getting a false (boolean) return value instead. And, change link output to use get_category_link() instead of get_term_link().([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/23837 #23837])
* Remove the_title_attribute() title attributes where it duplicates the_title() in anchor text. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/24203 #24203])
* Fix minor indentation issues in CSS files (spaces to tabs). ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/24196 r24196])
* Remove /extend/ from Theme URI headers in default themes. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/24389 #24389])
* Improve color contrast for links and text. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/14794 #14794])

== Version 1.5 ==
December 11, 2012

* Remove extra end comment and indent code.([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/20469 #20469])
* Add new 'flexible-header' tag for themes. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/21065 #21605])
* Remove invalid rel attribute generator from footer markup. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/22095 #22095])
* Allow show_home argument to be overridden when using wp_page_menu as a fallback to a Custom Menu.([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/22331 #22331])
* Continue reading link  should be pluggable. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/16500 #16500])
* Improve code readability in twentyten_comment. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/21474 #21474])

== Version 1.4 ==
June 13, 2012

* Coding standard: Use one space, not two, after trailing punctuation. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/19537 #19537])
* Remove custom header and background constants. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/20249 #20249])
* Update theme to use add_theme_support() for headers and backgrounds. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/20265 #20265])
* Provide backward compatibility for custom header in bundled theme. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/20768 #20768])

== Version 1.3 ==
December 12, 2011

* Make date formats for translation. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/16441 #16441])
* Fix alignment buttons when there is no content in editor under RTL. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/18247 #18247])
* Fix UL, OL in editor-style.css. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/18314 #18314])
* Use get_template_directory() instead of TEMPLATEPATH. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/18071 #18071])
* More consistent attribute escaping. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/19582 r19582])
* Implement rel="author". ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/17722 #17722])
* Add style: overflow:auto for pre tags. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/16317 #16317])

== Version 1.2 ==
February 23, 2011

* Center images on attachment pages. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/14284 #14284])
* style.css cleanup. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/14298 #14298])
* Fix image size handling. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/14303 #14303])
* Check for header image before showing it. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/14486 #14486])
* Set IE6 incompatible CSS rule in a different selector, because it causes all headings to be set in Georgia instead of Helvetica & co. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/14688 #14688])
* Fix some encoding issues. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/14735 #14735])
* Add Post Format support which can be used to designate an Aside or a Gallery! ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/14746 #14746])
* Fix header positioning in IE9. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/14883 #14883])
* Allow the various header constants to be redefined. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/14903 #14903])
* Check for theme support before calling has_post_thumbnail for child theme compatibility. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/14903 #14903])
* Use custom loops. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/15078 #15078])
* Deprecate twentyten_remove_gallery_css in favor of the use_default_gallery_style filter. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/15103 #15103])
* Utilize gallery-columns-# classes. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/15103 #15103])
* Fix long taglines hidden under the header image lte IE7. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/15113 #15113])
* Don't let widget select boxes get cut off by the sidebar. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/15114 #15114])
* Add a class to 'Your comment is awaiting moderation' in the comment walker and Twenty Ten's callback. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/15206 #15206])
* Revert replacement of get_the_category() with get_the_categories(). ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/15407 #15407])
* Don't pass optional argument with its default value. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/15450 #15450])
* Code cleanup. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/15476 #15476])
* Add a simple filter to allow removing the recent comments default widget styles. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/15493 #15493])
* Add 'View Galleries' link for post formats. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/15506 #15506])
* Only link to the Gallery category if the post is in the category. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/15506 #15506])
* Fix typo in loop.php. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/15537 #15537])
* Mark Twenty Ten as GPL per new theme directory guidelines. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/15632 #15632])
* Handle 'This gallery contains X photos' properly. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/15858 #15858])
* Add post format CSS to stylesheet. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/16141 #16141])
* Clear floats before page links in Twenty Ten. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/16178 #16178])
* Provide backward compatibility with the gallery_style filter. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/16610 #16610])
* Make dropdown menus slightly wider to accommodate long words and minor cleanup of style.css. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/14862 r14862])
* Editor-style CSS cleanup. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/14863 r14863])
* Revert changeset which deals with plural form issues in comments. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/17111 r17111])
* WP 3.0 compatibility for post formats. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/17469 r17469])

== Version 1.1 ==
July 29, 2010

* Clear #main in Twenty Ten to fix rendering in old Gecko browsers. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/13991 #13991])
* style.css updates for theme repo sync. Change hex values to lowercase.([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/14284 #14284])
* Capital p in WordPress. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/14293 #14293])
* New theme description and stylsheet cleanup. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/14298 #14298])
* Add single-attachment class and style to div#container of attachment.php. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/15422 r15422])
* Removw the color declaration from the strong tag so we don't interfere with the user's color choices. Slightly darkening body text for better readability. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/15164 r15164])

== Version 1.0.3 ==
June 17, 2010

Initial release.