== Version 1.8 ==
Released: January 9, 2019

* Make sure button blocks respect the default rounded style, as well as the squared and outline options. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45541 #45541])
* Bump version numbers of updated scripts and stylesheets to prevent caching. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45679 #45679])

== Version 1.7 ==
Released: December 19, 2018

* Update styles so button blocks will apply theme's custom colors. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45427 #45427])
* Swap incorrect styles for `sub` and `sup` in the editor styles, so the styles are correct. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/44776 #44776])
* Correct block appender appearance in block editor. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45450 #45450])
* Remove the term "Gutenberg" from code comments. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45452 #45452])

== Version 1.6 ==
Released: December 6, 2018

* Add front end styles, editor styles and a custom color palette for the new block-based editor. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45044 #45044] and [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45245 #45245])
* Add theme support for responsive block embeds. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45274 #45274])
* Update theme’s wide image styles and JavaScript to include image blocks. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45380 #45380])

== Version 1.5 ==
Released: May 17, 2018

* Remove the svn:executable property from files that don't need it. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42594 #42594])
* General: Fix some precision alignment formatting warnings. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/41057 #41057)]
* Code is Poetry. WordPress' code just... wasn't. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/41057 #41057])
* Add link to privacy policy page in footer. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/43715 #43715])
* Comments: Move comment consent input outside the label for a11y. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/43436 #43436])

== Version 1.4 ==
Released: November 14, 2017
 
* Allow category display in post preview even when there is only one category. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/39531 #39531])
* Replace a variety of http links referenced in inline docs with their <code>https</code> counterparts. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/40732 #40732])
* Correct the <code>@return</code> value for <code>twentysixteen_post_thumbnail_sizes_attr()</code>. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/41830 #41830])
* Replace inline control structureв to improve code readability. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/38468 #38468])
* Make sure comment number comparison in comments.php works as expected. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/39660 #39660])
* Change tag cloud format to a list (ul) for better semantics and accessibility. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/40138 #40138])

== Version 1.3 ==
<p>Released: August 15, 2016</p>

<ul><li>Update deprecated theme tags. ([https://github.com/WordPress/twentysixteen/issues/457 #457])</li>
<li>Make twentysixteen_categorized_blog() function pluggable. ([https://github.com/WordPress/twentysixteen/issues/446 #446])</li>
<li>Add clearfix for blockquote. ([https://github.com/WordPress/twentysixteen/issues/462 #462])</li>
<li>Add styles for date/time input[type]s introduced in HTML5. ([https://github.com/WordPress/twentysixteen/issues/437 #437])</li>
<li>Remove .pot files from Default Themes. ([https://github.com/WordPress/twentysixteen/issues/473 #473])</li></ul>

== Version 1.2 ==
<p>Released: April 12, 2016</p>

<ul><li>Remove title attribute from search field</li>
<li>Prevent overflowing of fieldsets on small screens</li>
<li>jQuery: Replace use of the <code>.load()</code> method for the "load" event with <code>.on( 'load', handler )</code></li>
<li>Adding site logo functionality</li>
<li>Add selective refresh support for site title and tagline</li>
<li>Add customize-selective-refresh-widgets theme support</li></ul>

== Version 1.1 ==
<p>Released: January 6, 2016</p>

<ul><li>Remove unnecessary crop parameter</li>
<li>Remove an extra separator in post meta for single author blog</li>
<li>Comment tag fix</li>
<li>Filter tag cloud widget font size to avoid !important in CSS</li>
<li>Fix incorrect opacity property for IE specific stylesheet.</li>
<li>Escape attribute text properly in `aria-label` attributes</li></ul>

== Version 1.0 ==
Released: December 8, 2015

Initial Release.