== Version 2.7==
Released: January 9, 2019

* Make sure button blocks respect the default rounded style, as well as the squared and outline options. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45541 #45541])
* Bump version numbers of updated scripts and stylesheets to prevent caching. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45679 #45679])

== Version 2.6 ==
Released: December 19, 2018

* Update styles so button blocks will apply theme's custom colors. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45431 #45431])
* Correct block appender appearance in block editor. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45450 #45450])
* Remove the term "Gutenberg" from code comments. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45452 #45452])

== Version 2.5 ==
Released: December 6, 2018

* Add front end styles, editor styles and a custom color palette for the new block-based editor. Also add support and styles for wide block alignments. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45041 #45041] and [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45242 #45242])
* Add theme support for responsive block embeds. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45274 #45274])

== Version 2.4 ==
Released: May 17, 2018

* Code is Poetry. WordPress' code just... wasn't. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/41057 #41057])
* Docs: Remove @summary tags from JSDoc. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42901 #42901])
* Add link to privacy policy page in footer. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/43715 #43715])
* Comments: Move comment consent input outside the label for a11y. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/43436 #43436])

== Version 2.3 ==
Released: November 14, 2017

* Change tag cloud format to a list (ul) for better semantics and accessibility. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/40138 #40138])
* Make sure new gallery widgets look good in themes. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/41969 #41969])

== Version 2.2 ==
Released: June 8, 2017

* Improve styles for 4.8 widgets. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/40745 #40745])

== Version 2.1 ==
Released: December 6, 2016

* Add preconnect to fonts.gstatic.com. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/37171 #37171])

== Version 2.0 ==
Released August 15, 2016

* Remove .pot files from Default Themes. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/34884 #34884])
* Fix selective refresh of Masonry-laid out widgets by deferring initialization until DOM ready. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/37390 #37390])
* Fix PHP 7 compatibility issues. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/37227 #37227])
* Update theme tags. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/37426 #37426])

== Version 1.9 ==
Released April 12, 2016

* Add selective refresh framework with implementation for widgets and re-implementation for nav menus. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/27355 #27355])
* Standardize on "front end"/"back end" (noun) and "front-end"/"back-end". ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/34887 #34887])
* Use selective refresh to preview changes to site title and tagline in core themes. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/27355 #27355])
* Prevent elements within fieldsets from overflowing in Webkit. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/#35421 #35421])
* Removes title attribute from footer. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/35843  #35843 ])
* Fixes insufficient check for existence of DOM elements in jQuery object. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/34033 #34033])
* Update screenshot to 1200 x 900. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/34806 #34806])
* Require opt-in for selective refresh of widgets. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/27355 #27355])

== Version 1.8 ==
Released January 6, 2016

* Add missing loop to image.php template. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/35110 #35110])

== Version 1.7 ==
Released December 8, 2015

* Correct license information in readme.txt. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/33590 #33590])

== Version 1.6 ==
Released August 18, 2015

* Add readme file to explain basic theme usage, link to changelog in Codex, and include license information. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31814 #31814])
* Use https for Google API external libraries. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/32552 #32552])
* Set the max-width of images in themes to 100%, not in pixels. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/33022 #33022] and [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31250 #31250])
* Fixed: Remove Genericons example.html files.

== Version 1.5 ==
Released April 23, 2015

* Fix escaping and minor code style issues ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/29127 #29127])
* Update editor styles to improve image and caption display in small screens ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31250 #31250])
* Replace current() with reset(), which is guaranteed to be the first item ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31259 #31259], [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31260 #31260])
* Update CSS rules for `.screen-reader-text` to be consistent with current accessibility guidelines ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31279 #31279])
* Add ARIA attributes to menu toggle and add documentation for new `onResizeARIA` function ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31527 #31527])
* Use SSL for theme and author URIs ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31699 #31699])
* Make sure submenu links work correctly on small screens with touch events ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31762 #31762])
* Add trailing slashes to theme URIs to avoid a redirect ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31839 #31839])

== Version 1.4 ==
Released: December 18, 2014

* Move the "Continue Reading" arrows back inside the translatable strings so they can be localised. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/30641 #30641])
* Use proper way to get customizer settings values. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/29577 #29577])
* Replace ellipses appended to automatically generated excerpts with both ellipses and a "Continue Reading" link to meet accessibility-ready requirements. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/30178 #30178])
* Fix non-responsive layout in IE8. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/24194 #24194])
* Add bottom margin to audio and video players. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/29146 #29146])
* Improve keyboard accessibility on Custom Header and Custom Background screen. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/29289 #29289])
* Change instances of "Theme Customizer" to just "Customizer", as the Customizer isn't necessarily theme-specific. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/29947 #29947])
* Use HTTPS URLs for core.trac.wordpress.org. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/27115 #27115])
* Prevent the arrow in "Continue reading" links from wrapping to a second line. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/27908 #27908])

== Version 1.3 ==
Released: September 4, 2014

* Make small-screen menu accessible to keyboard commands and voice-driven software by using a focusable `button` element rather than `h3` for the toggle element. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/28293 #28293])
* Adjust background size of header image(s) for small devices. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/26856 #26856])
* Make submenu links work correctly on tablets. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/24767 #24767])
* Update to Genericons 3.0.3. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/25391 #25391])
* Fix layout issue with search form in older versions of Safari and Android. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/24192 #24192])
* Add `accessibility-ready` tag. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/28225 #28225])

== Version 1.2 ==
Released: May 8, 2014

* Use correct logic in IE conditional comments in header template. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/28151 #28151])
* Prevent 'Page %s' from being added to page title on 404 error pages in bundled themes. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/16468 #16468])
* Style to support the new HTML5 line-break-less galleries. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/27637 #27637])
* Implement HTML5 markup for galleries and captions. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/27502 #27502])
* Add Audio, Video, and Gallery Styles to editor styles. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/27462 #27462])
* On attachment pages for audio and video, display players. Currently, only a link is displayed. Add minimal CSS rules for compatibility. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/27243 #27243])
* In `prepend_attachment`, add logic to support attachment types that are not `image`. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/27243 #27243])
* In `get_post_class()`, don't add the `has-post-thumbnail` class for attachment pages. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/27243 #27243])
* Improve menu navigation for keyboard and voice-over interactions by properly focusing on submenu items when they are open. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/24839 #24839])
* Remove doc block comments for `@return void`. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/27098 #27098])
* Don't print the featured image when viewing an attachment. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/27243 #27243])
* Update the HTML5 Shiv across the default themes to 3.7.0. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/26491 #26491])
* Use the 'display' filter for get_bloginfo( 'name' ) attached to the wp_title filter. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/26811 #26811])
* New screenshots at 880x660 to maximize theme goodness in the new theme viewer design. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/26159 #26159])
* Add and display new tags to highlight the ever-growing number of responsive themes available. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/21442 #21442])
* Implement Microsoft-specific `@viewport` rules for better responsive styling in Windows 8 "snapped" views. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/25888 #25888])
* Capitalize "Not Found" string for use in a page title. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/24891 #24891], [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/25907 r25907])

== Version 1.1 ==
Released: October 24, 2013

* Translator comments are special, make sure they are parsed properly. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/25256 #25256])
* Restore the original "Not found" string. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/24891 #24891])
* Fix description layout on attachment outputs. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/25578 #25578])
* Use correct font name in comment docs. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/25593 #25593])
* Don't use /** docblocks for simple multiline comments. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/25256 #25256])
* Remove unneeded .single-attachment selector. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/25506 #25506])
* Update code comments to reflect WP inline docs standards. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/25256 #25256])
* Fix case where comment layout can break if a really, really long word is in the comment content. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/25195 #25195])
* Revert combining two similar `Nothing Found` strings. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/24891 #24891])
* Ensure custom headers are set up after the localization is initialized. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/24943 #24943])

== Version 1.0 ==
Released: August 1, 2013

Initial release.