== Version 1.4 ==
Released: May 7, 2019
* Trigger a new `wp_body_open` action immediately after the opening `body` tag, and add shim. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/12563 #12563], [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/46679 #46679)]
* Update RTL styles to include less aggressive non-latin font fallbacks. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45731 #45731])
* Update readme.txt file content to fix validation errors. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45871 #45871])
* Remove stray `÷` character from theme’s SCSS. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/46083 #46083])
* Remove forced left border on the quote block. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/46239 #46239])
* Avoid nested links in the comment meta. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/46291 #46291])
* Improve custom color behavior for InnerBlocks. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/46432 #46432])
*  Fix padding discrepancies in responsive styles for the Columns block. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/46643 #46643], [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/46999 #46999])
* Correct theme’s URL to its location in the WordPress.org Theme Repository. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/46668 #46668])
* Prevent too-long strings from causing horizontal scrolling. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/46704 #46704])
* Fix inconsistent indentation in the theme’s SCSS. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/46821 #46821])
* Fix inconsistent HTML comments after closing HTML tags. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/46871 #46871])

== Version 1.3 ==
Released: February 21, 2019

* Fix page title alignment when there are no posts. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45887 #45887])
* Implement a less aggressive approach to non-latin font fallbacks. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45731 #45731])

== Version 1.2 ==
Released: January 9, 2019

* Update navigation JavaScript so it no longer follows links on touch start . ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45510 #45510])
* Correct opacity and text shadow on submenus when there’s a featured image. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45689 #45689])
* Update the theme’s description and tags. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45693 #45693])
* Improve menu’s semantics and keyboard navigation. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45713 #45713])
* Remove underline from icon next to ‘Continue Reading’ link. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45715 #45715])
* Style right-aligned images to be pushed outside of the content column on the front end, to match how they look in the editor. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45716 #45716])
* Correct hover styles on outlined button blocks. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45726 #45726])
* Bump version numbers of updated scripts and stylesheets to prevent caching. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45679 #45679])

== Version 1.1 ==
Released: December 19, 2018

* General code and documentation improvements. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45424 #45424], in [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/44187 r44187] and [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/44199 r44199])
* Remove customization to the block editor toolbar that was causing issues. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45424 #45424], in [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/44189 r44189])
* Add breakpoint to columns block for better display on tablets. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45369 #45369])
* Correct issue with primary color theme option not working. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45424 #45424], in [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/44192 r44192])
* Add front end center align styles for the archive and category blocks. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45424 #45424], in [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/44193 r44193])
* Fix image_filter theme option conditional function. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45424 #45424], in [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/44193 r44193])
* Remove duplicate rule-line when a separator block is followed by H1/H2 in the editor. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45424 #45424], in [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/44193 r44193])
* Fix the gallery caption link color. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45424 #45424], in [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/44196 r44196])
* Remove left padding from pullquote blocks. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45424 #45424], in [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/44196 r44196])
* Print `skip-link-focus-fix` inline instead of enqueuing as blocking script. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45424 #45424], in [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/44196 r44196])
* Improve strings with placeholders to make them easier to translate. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45424 #45424], in [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/44196 r44196])
* Fix PHP warning that appeared in on single posts with featured images. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45424 #45424], in [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/44199 r44199])
* Add missing text domain and escaping to comment author text. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45424 #45424], in [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/44199 r44199])
* Remove hyphens rule for cover block text. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45424 #45424], in [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/44199 r44199])
* Fix left/right-aligned pullquote spacing. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45424 #45424], in [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/44201 r44201])
* Improve `readme.txt` to follow the correct standards for themes. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45424 #45424], in [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/44201 r44201])
* Sync up minor code formatting and missing styles from GitHub repo to SVN. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45424 #45424], in [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/44202 r44202])

== Version 1.0 ==
Released: December 6, 2018

Initial Release.