== Version 2.2 ==
Released: May 7, 2019

* Trigger a new `wp_body_open` action immediately after the opening `body` tag, and add shim. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/12563 #12563], [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/46679 #46679])
* Use theme version number when enqueuing styles. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/39997 #39997])
* Correct hover styles for MediaElement JS buttons. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/40843 #40843])
* Update readme.txt file content to fix validation errors. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45871 #45871])
* Make `th` styling match on the front-end and in the editor. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/46568 #46568])
* Prevent too-long strings from causing horizontal scrolling. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/46703 #46703])
* Fix inconsistent HTML comments after closing HTML tags. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/46871 #46871])

== Version 2.1 ==
Released: February 21, 2019

* Add escaping to the pingback URL. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/43717 #43717])
* Fix issue with YouTube videos used in the Header Media area displaying offset in Safari. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/40522 #40522])
* Make sure right-aligned quotes are correctly positioned on page load. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/40103 #40103])
* Correct the documentation for `twentyseventeen_scripts()` function.  ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45466 #45466])
* Update `@link` information in index.php.  ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45222 #45222])
* Remove unneeded  `default_text_color` from doc block, and add information for the `twentyseventeen_custom_header_setup()` function. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/44920 #44920])
* Correct "frontpage" to "front page" in the code comments. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42666 #42666])
* In the code comments, correct the number of recent blog posts that will be displayed on the static front page. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42621 #42621])

== Version 2.0==
Released: January 9, 2019

* Use simple counter rather than `uniqid()` for generating unique IDs for HTML elements. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/44883 #44883])
* Fix block editor custom color styles, to make sure they’re being correctly applied to blocks. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45426 #45426])
* Make sure button blocks respect the default rounded style, as well as the squared and outline options. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45541 #45541])
* Bump version numbers of updated scripts and stylesheets to prevent caching. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45679 #45679])

== Version 1.9 ==
Released: December 19, 2018

* Remove unneeded ordered list styles from editor styles, which caused issues in starting order. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/44775 #44775])
* Add focus styles to the cookies consent checkbox in the comment form. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/44699 #44699])
* Remove legacy Internet Explorer 8 styles from the editor that were making it impossible to resize images. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/39738 #39738])
* Correct font family used for Simplified Chinese in the block editor styles. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45408 #45408])
* Correct block appender appearance in block editor. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45450 #45450])
* Remove the term "Gutenberg" from code comments and editor styles. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45452 #45452])

== Version 1.8 ==
Released: December 6, 2018

* Add front end and editor styles for the new block-based editor.  ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45045 #45045] and [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45246 #45246])
* Add theme support for responsive block embeds. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45274 #45274])

== Version 1.7 ==
Released: August 2, 2018

* Correct list item style for nested unordered lists. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/44109 #44109])

== Version 1.6 ==
Released: May 17, 2018

* Add link to privacy policy page in footer. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/43715 #43715])
* Comments: Move comment consent input outside the label for a11y. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/43436 #43436])

== Version 1.5 ==
Released: April 3, 2018

* Various code improvements for formatting. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/41057 #41057])
* Use consistent wording when referring to the front page in inline docs. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42666 #42666])
* Correct the number of recent posts in a comment in <code>template-parts/page/content-front-page-panels.php</code>. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42621 #42621])
* Remove unnecessary comment in <code>front-page.php</code>. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42820 #42820])
* Underline links in comments. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/43317 #43317])

== Version 1.4 ==
Released: November 14, 2017

* Remove/merge unused variables in <code>content-front-page.php</code>. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/39771 #39771])
* Correct the <code>@return</code> value for <code>twentyseventeen_post_thumbnail_sizes_attr()</code>. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/41830 #41830])
* Document the type of <code>$item</code> argument in <code>twentyseventeen_dropdown_icon_to_menu_link()</code> more accurately. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/41923 #41923])
* Add Periscope icon to supported social links. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/40959 #40959])
* Add Docker Hub icon to supported social links. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/41529 #41529])
* Add missing labels for <code><aside role="complementary"></code> widget areas. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42056 #42056])
* Change tag cloud format to a list (ul) for better semantics and accessibility. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/40184 #40184]), ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/40138 #40138])
* Add missing <code>@return</code> tag for <code>twentyseventeen_video_controls()</code>. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/41927 #41927])
* Fix positioning of edit shortcuts when partials are nested inside a frontpage panel. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/41557 #41557])
* Fix double bottom-margins below embeds. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42118 #42118])
* Make gallery link styles consistent in all widget areas. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42302 #42302]), ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/41969 #41969])

== Version 1.3 ==
Released: June 8, 2017

* Improve styles for 4.8 widgets. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/40745 #40745])
* Remove uneccessary return statement. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/40516 #40516])
* Improves code readability and code standards in files. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/39152 #39152])
* Hardens the logic for calling featured image in <code>header.php</code>. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/39302 #39302])
* Correct <code>@param</code> entry for <code>twentyseventeen_front_page_sections</code> filter. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/39488 #39488])
* Remove extra asterisk from a translator comment so the comment could be parsed correctly. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/39116 #39116])
* Correct <code>@param</code> entries for <code>twentyseventeen_custom_colors_css</code> filter. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/39575 #39575])
* Remove duplicate <code>global $post</code> declaration in <code>twentyseventeen_front_page_section()</code>. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/39590 #39590])
* Improve typography for Simplified Chinese <code>(zh_CN)</code>. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/39379 #39379])
* Allow category display in post preview even when only one category. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/39531 #39531])
* Rename "Sidebar" widget area for clarity. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/39567 #39567])
* Correct grammar in 'Page Layout' control description. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/40107 #40107])

== Version 1.2 ==
Released: April 18, 2017 

* Declare jQuery dependency for <code>navigation.js</code>. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/40224 #40224])
* Correctly escape translatable strings in HTML attributes. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/40216 #40216])
* Fix incorrect heading hierarchy for front page posts. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/40264 #40264])

== Version 1.1 ==
Released: January 6, 2017

* Fix incorrect <code>$content_width</code> value in theme. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/39272 #39272])
* Ensure functions in <code>customize-controls.js</code> don't count on Customizer sections always being present. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/39335 #39335])
* Deprecate <code>page_home</code> nav menu item starter content in favor of <code>link_home</code>. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/39104 #39104])
* Introduce a theme-specific filter <code>twentyseventeen_starter_content</code> for customizing the starter content array. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/39109 #39109])

== Version 1.0 ==
Released: December 6, 2016

Initial Release.