== Version 2.5 ==
Released: May 7, 2019

* Trigger a new `wp_body_open` action immediately after the opening `body` tag, and add shim. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/12563 #12563], [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/46679 #46679])
* Use theme version number when enqueuing styles. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/39997 #39997])
* Update readme.txt file content to fix validation errors. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45871 #45871])
* Update link to child theme and post thumbnail documentation to point to their new locations. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/46450 #46450], [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/46823 #46823])
* Fix typo in theme’s print styles. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/46767 #46767])
* Fix inconsistent HTML comments after closing HTML tags. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/46871 #46871])


== Version 2.4 ==
Released: February 21, 2019

* Add escaping to the pingback URL. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/43717 #43717])

== Version 2.3==
Released: January 9, 2019

* Make sure button blocks respect the default rounded style, as well as the squared and outline options. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45541 #45541])
* Bump version numbers of updated scripts and stylesheets to prevent caching. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45679 #45679])

== Version 2.2 ==
Released: December 19, 2018

* Update styles so button blocks will apply theme's custom colors. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45428 #45428])
* Correct block appender appearance in block editor. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45450 #45450])
* Remove the term "Gutenberg" from code comments. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45452 #45452])

== Version 2.1 ==
Released: December 6, 2018

* Add front end styles, editor styles and a custom color palette for the new block-based editor. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45043 #45043] and [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45244 #45244]) 
* Add theme support for responsive block embeds. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/45274 #45274])

== Version 2.0 ==
Released: May 17, 2018

* Code is Poetry. WordPress' code just... wasn't. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/41057 #41057])
* Docs: Remove @summary tags from JSDoc. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42901 #42901])
* Add link to privacy policy page in footer. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/43715 #43715])
* Comments: Move comment consent input outside the label for a11y. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/43436 #43436])

== Version 1.9 ==
Released: November 14, 2017
 
* Remove "called called" dittography typo. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/41836 #41836]), ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/41841 #41841])
* Add missing comma in <code>ie.css</code>. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/41890 #41890])
* Change tag cloud format to a list (ul) for better semantics and accessibility. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/40138 #40138])
* Add missing singular placeholder in comments.php. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/39660 #39660])

== Version 1.8 ==
Released: June 8, 2017

* Improve styles for 4.8 widgets. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/40745 #40745])
* Allow category display in post preview even when only one category ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/39531 #39531])

== Version 1.7 ==
Released: December 6, 2016

* Add documentation to filters in themes. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/38382 #38382])
* Add preconnect to fonts.gstatic.com. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/37171 #37171])

== Version 1.6 ==
Released: August 15, 2016

* Remove .pot files from Default Themes. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/34884 #34884])
* Update theme tags. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/37426 #37426])

== Version 1.5 ==
Released: April 12, 2016

* Add left margin for lists inside blockquotes in editor-style.css. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/33380 #33380])
* Use selective refresh to preview changes to site title and tagline in core themes. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/27355 #27355])
* Prevent elements within fieldsets from overflowing in Webkit. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/#35421 #35421])
* Add support for site logos. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/#35944 #35944])
* Fixes insufficient check for existence of DOM elements in jQuery object. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/34033 #34033])
* Update screenshot to 1200 x 900. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/34806 #34806])
* Require opt-in for selective refresh of widgets. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/27355 #27355])

== Version 1.4 ==
Released: December 8, 2015

* Correct license information in readme.txt. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/33590 #33590])
* Add a missing comma in rtl.css. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/33985 #33985])
* Document the 'twentyfifteen_color_schemes' filter. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/34119 #34119])

== Version 1.3 ==
Released August 18, 2015

* Update readme.txt file. Fix typo in readme file and format the release dates as per other bundled themes readme.txt file format. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31814 #31814])
* Add missing social link Genericons styles for Skype and Path. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/32332 #32332])
* Wrap navigation helpers into a function so it can be called on a refresh event of the Customize Preview. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/32576 #32576])
* Use https for Google API external libraries. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/32552 #32552])
* Use default strings and textdomain for comments link. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/32001  #32001])
* Display sidebar background color with Header Image. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31460 #31460])
* Don't hyphenate input elements. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/32880 #32880])
* Set the max-width of images in themes to 100%, not in pixels. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/33022 #33022] and [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31250 #31250])

== Version 1.2 ==
Released May 6, 2015

* Remove Genericons example.html files.

== Version 1.1 ==
Released April 23, 2015

* Keep sub-menus open when visiting sub-menu pages. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/30722 #30722])
* Use better, universal sans-serif fonts for RTL. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/30752 #30752])
* Remove URLs from reset credits. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/30764 #30764])
* Move `js` and `no-js` class name functionality out of  header template and into a `wp_head` hook in functions.php file. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/30770 #30770])
* Remove URLs from reset credits. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/30764 #30764])
* Add styles for multi-site registration forms. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/30776 #30776])
* Fix missing style for menu in small screens. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/30857 #30857])
* Remove border on post navigation when post thumbnail is available. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/30918 #30918])
* Remove unused CSS rules for `wp_page_menu` since those are not used in the theme. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/30957 #30957])
* Add print section to the table of contents in the stylesheet. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/30993 #30993])
* Move RSS icon style rule lower to prevent it from being overridden by other social icon rules. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31129 #31129])
* Update editor styles to improve image and caption display in small screens. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31250 #31250])
* Add ARIA attributes to menu toggle and add documentation for new onResizeARIA function.([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31527 #31527])
* Use SSL for theme and author URIs. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31699 #31699])
* Adjust scroll behavior to include sidebar height in calculation. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31734 #31734])
* Add trailing slashes to theme URIs to avoid a redirect. ([https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31839 #31839])

== Version 1.0 ==
Released: December 18, 2014

Initial Release.