{{Languages|
{{en|Update Services}}
{{ja|更新通知サービス}}
{{pt-br|Serviços de Atualização}}
{{zh-cn|更新服务}}
{{zh-tw|更新服務}}
}}

Update Services are tools you can use to let other people know you've updated your blog.  WordPress automatically notifies popular Update Services that you've updated your blog by sending a [http://www.xmlrpc.com/ XML-RPC] [[Glossary#PingBack|ping]] each time you create or update a post.  In turn, Update Services process the ping and updates their proprietary indices with ''your'' update.  Now people browsing sites like Technorati or Sphere can find your most recent posts!

== Common Usage ==

Most people use [http://pingomatic.com/ Ping-o-Matic] which, with just one [[Glossary#PingBack|"ping"]] from you, will let many other services know that you've updated. As for why, Ping-O-Matic puts it best:

<blockquote><i>
So why would you want to be on these sites? One word: traffic. Blogrolling scripts like [http://blogrolling.com blogrolling.com] and WordPress check update services to see if you've updated and then shows it on everyone's site -- usually by moving you to the top of people's blogrolling list or putting a recently updated indicator by your link. Services like [http://technorati.com Technorati] spider your links to track who links to you and who you link to; almost in real time. If you show up on someone's Technorati link list (often called an "egorati search") they're likely to visit your site to see what you said, increasing your exposure. Other sites like [http://weblogs.com weblogs.com] and [http://blo.gs blo.gs] list recently updated blogs.  Lots of people browse these when they're bored. Many of the services offer their own forms for pinging their own service, but keeping track of all those services is a hassle.
</i></blockquote>

WordPress makes this easy for you by listing Ping-O-Matic's server ([http://rpc.pingomatic.com/ rpc.pingomatic.com]) by default.  All you need to do is sit back and let it work for you!

If you do not want the update services to be pinged, remove all the update service URIs listed under "Update Services" on the [[Administration_Panels#Settings|Settings]]->[[Settings Writing SubPanel|Writing]] administration screen of your WordPress installation.  

Certain web hosts - particularly free ones - disable the PHP functions used to alert update services. If your web host prevents pings, you should stop WordPress from attempting to ping and consider using the Feedburner [http://blogs.feedburner.com/feedburner/archives/001433.html Pingshot] service.

== XML-RPC Ping Services ==

 http://rpc.pingomatic.com
 http://rpc.twingly.com
 http://api.feedster.com/ping
 http://api.moreover.com/RPC2
 http://api.moreover.com/ping
 http://www.blogdigger.com/RPC2
 http://www.blogshares.com/rpc.php
 http://www.blogsnow.com/ping
 http://www.blogstreet.com/xrbin/xmlrpc.cgi
 http://bulkfeeds.net/rpc
 http://www.newsisfree.com/xmlrpctest.php
 http://ping.blo.gs/
 http://ping.feedburner.com
 http://ping.syndic8.com/xmlrpc.php
 http://ping.weblogalot.com/rpc.php
 http://rpc.blogrolling.com/pinger/
 http://rpc.technorati.com/rpc/ping
 http://rpc.weblogs.com/RPC2
 http://www.feedsubmitter.com
 http://blo.gs/ping.php
 http://www.pingerati.net
 http://www.pingmyblog.com
 http://geourl.org/ping
 http://ipings.com
 http://www.weblogalot.com/ping

== Alternatives ==

* An alternative is [http://feedshark.brainbliss.com Feed Shark], which pings over 60 services for free.

* Feedburner users can use the Feedburner [http://blogs.feedburner.com/feedburner/archives/001433.html Pingshot] service, which will alert most popular ping services.

* If you're interested in manual configuration, have a look at the [https://web.archive.org/web/20140212124856/http://www.instant-info-online.com/wordpress-compressed-all-inclusive-ping-list.html WordPress compressed ping list (archived version)].

* Check  [http://www.prelovac.com/vladimir/wordpress-ping-list Vladimir's WordPress Ping List], manually checked and updated

== WordPress Multisite Network ==

By default, editing the Ping Services for a WordPress Multisite network site is disabled. This can be re-enabled with a plugin such as the [http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/activate-update-services/ Activate Update Services] plugin.

[[Category:Installation]]
[[Category:Getting Started]]
[[Category:UI Link]]