{{Languages|
{{en|Using FeedBurner}}
{{ja|Using FeedBurner}}
{{pt-br|Usando o FeedBurner}}
}}

You may want to use [http://feedburner.com FeedBurner] to power your [[Glossary#Feed|feeds]] and make them available for everyone to subscribe to. FeedBurner is sometimes preferred for serving feeds as it has detailed statistics and display options such as sharing buttons.

FeedBurner is an external service owned by Google and is in no way associated with the WordPress project.

==Setup==

You want all your feeds to automatically redirect to FeedBurner.  This way, new and old subscribers (including aggregators such as Google Reader) will automatically start fetching from FeedBurner instead.

You could of course notify your readers that your feed is also available at <tt><nowiki>http://feeds.feedburner.com/yourfeed</nowiki></tt>, but users are lazy.

There are three options to accomplish this. Use a plugin, custom function, or edit your .htaccess file. Most people prefer the ease of plugins so we'll start with that.

==Plugins==

Installing a plugin may simplify the process of enabling the redirection to FeedBurner.  Here are a few:
* [http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/feedburner-plugin/ FD FeedBurner Plugin]
* [https://wordpress.org/plugins/rs-feedburner/ RS FeedBurner - Easy Implementation of FeedBurner, FeedPress, and FeedBlitz Feeds] This is a fork of the famous FeedBurner Feedsmith plugin by Steve Smith, since it was discontinued.

=== Plugin notes, probably outdated===

Note: If you have WordPress installed into a folder other than your root folder, you may encounter errors.  If so, try [http://www.thatedeguy.com/archives/2005/12/wordpress-feedburner-plugin-hack  Thatedeguy's Hack ]for a workaround.

If you have '''index.php''' in your permalink structure you have to use [http://fredfred.net/skriker/index.php/feedburner-with-wordpress-without-htaccess/ this hack].  This hack only forwards part of the RSS feeds.  To forward all of your feeds to FeedBurner use [http://www.diylive.net/index.php/2006/01/20/forward-wordpress-feeds-to-feedburner/ This hack]

== Custom Function ==

For those who prefer a function instead of a plugin, you can use the following code. It uses the [[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/feed_link|feed_link]]  action hook and replaces all instances of your default WordPress feed (rss, rss2, atom, and rdf). Rename the function and remember to replace the url with your FeedBurner url.

<pre>
// replace the default posts feed with FeedBurner
function appthemes_custom_rss_feed( $output, $feed ) {
    if ( strpos( $output, 'comments' ) )
        return $output;

    return esc_url( 'http://feeds.feedburner.com/AppThemes/' );
}
add_action( 'feed_link', 'appthemes_custom_rss_feed', 10, 2 );
</pre>

For more use cases, see the Resources links below.

== Editing .htaccess ==

You need an .htaccess that is created/modified by WordPress via the Permalink/mod-rewrite option. Go to Settings > Permalinks in the wordpress administration menu and enable "fancy" urls by adding <nowiki>/%year%/%monthnum%/%day%/%postname%/</nowiki> at "Custom Structure". 

Let's say your blog's feed is currently completely managed by WordPress at <tt><nowiki>http://example.com/wp-rss2.php</nowiki></tt> (or <tt><nowiki>http://example.com/feed/rss2/</nowiki></tt>), and you want your subscribers to instead subscriber to the FeedBurner feed, which is at <tt><nowiki>http://feeds.feedburner.com/yourfeed</nowiki></tt>.

You must first modify your .htaccess file by following the instructions at [http://www.askapache.com/htaccess/redirecting-wordpress-feeds-to-feedburner.html Redirecting RSS to Feedburner]. 

''Adapted from [http://wordpress.org/support/topic.php?id=20285#post-115463 The support forum]

=== Resources ===
* [http://www.wpbeginner.com/opinion/stop-using-feedburner-move-to-feedburner-alternatives/ Stop Using FeedBurner - Move to FeedBurner Alternatives]
* [https://wordpress.org/plugins/xslt/ FeedBurner alternative: Better RSS Feeds plugin]
* [http://docs.appthemes.com/tutorials/redirect-wordpress-feed-feedburner/ Redirect Your WordPress Feed to FeedBurner Without a Plugin]
* [http://www.google.com/support/feedburner/bin/answer.py?answer=78483 Creating your WordPress feed (self-hosted WordPress)]
* [http://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/step-by-step-guide-to-setup-feedburner-for-wordpress/ Step by Step Guide to Setup FeedBurner for WordPress]

[[Category:Getting Started]]
[[Category:Advanced Topics]]
[[Category:Feeds]]