__TOC__
Validating a website is the process of ensuring that the pages on the website conform to the norms or standards defined by various organizations. Validation is important, and will ensure that your web pages are interpreted in the same way (the way you want it) by various machines, such as search engines, as well as users and visitors to your webpage. 

Conforming to standards and regulations is one of the many ways you can make your website universally understood. Make sure your codes and styles validate across the board. That means they have to meet the "strict" standards set by the [http://w3c.org W3C Organization] and pass a variety of validations for [[Glossary#CSS|CSS]] and [[Glossary#XHTML|XHTML]].

Not all validators check for the same things.  Some only check CSS, others XHTML, and others for accessibility. If you are sincere in presenting standardized pages to the public, test them with several validators. The World Wide Web Consortium sets the standards and also hosts a variety of [http://www.w3.org/QA/Tools/ web page validators].

In simple terms, validation ensures that your website complies with the standards accepted by most web designers. That also means that it  will be [[Accessibility|accessible]] to more people, across more web browsers and operation systems. Having an accessible website is also regarded as good web design practice. As you can see, having a validated website has its definite plus points.

==Validation Techniques==

Validators detect problems in your web page and style sheet.  It could be a tag that was opened and never closed.  It could be a misspelled piece of code or forgotten element the tag or style requires to work properly.  You become a detective, hunting and solving the little problems occurring in your web page.  The [[#Validation Resources and Articles|resources and articles on validation]] below will help you learn more about validating your web page.

Validating your WordPress site means more than just checking the front page for errors. With the modular [[Using Themes|Themes]] and [[Templates|template files]] in WordPress, while you may fix all the errors associated with the <tt>index.php</tt> and <tt>sidebar.php</tt> when viewing your front page, errors may still lie within any other template files such as <tt>single.php</tt>, <tt>page.php</tt>, <tt>archives.php</tt>, or <tt>category.php</tt>. Validate these page views as well to make sure you cover all the template files.

Validation errors aren't limited to your template files. They can also happen inside of a post. When you are [[Writing Posts|writing a post]] and using HTML, WordPress might not recognize the HTML and [[Writing_Code_in_Your_Posts|convert it to a character entity]], or you may have entered it wrong. If you have a page with a lot of HTML coding, validate it to make sure you have it all correct. And occasionally check random posts to make sure everything is still okay from time to time as part of your general [[WordPress Housekeeping|housekeeping]].

Validation doesn't just mean putting your pages through some web driven testers. It also means test-driving it with friends, relatives, co-workers, and strangers. Everyone has a different system and way of working, so ask for others to test-drive your styles or themes before you make them public. 

===Validation Checklist===

To help you validate your WordPress site, here is a quick checklist:

# [[HTML to XHTML|Validate HTML/XHTML]]
# Validate CSS
# Validate for Section 508 Standards (accessibility)
# Validate for WAI standards (accessibility)
# Validate Links (check for [[WordPress_Site_Maintenance|dead links]])
# Validate Feeds
# Check across different browsers (include handheld computers, Mac, PC, and cellphones, too)
# Re-validate HTML and CSS
# Have friends, relatives, co-workers check your site
# When ready, you can post your site on the WordPress Forum's Your WordPress for review

==HTML - Validation==

* [http://validator.w3.org/ The W3C's HTML Validation Service] (URL and upload)
* [http://www.w3.org/QA/Tools/ W3C's Collection of Validators]
* [http://cgi.w3.org/cgi-bin/tidy W3C Tidy Online]
* [http://www.silktide.com/ Silk Tide Online Validator for Errors and Accessibility]
* [http://perso.wanadoo.fr/ablavier/TidyGUI/ Windows GUI Interface for TIDY]
* [http://sitereportcard.com/ Site Report Card Validator]
* [http://valet.webthing.com/page/ Valet Webthing.com]
* [http://watson.addy.com/ Watson Addy's Validator]
* [http://www.anybrowser.com/validateit.html AnyBrowser's HTML Validation]
* [http://www.cynthiasays.com/ Cynthia Says Validator]
* [http://www.doctor-html.com/RxHTML/ Doctor-HTML Validator]
* [http://www.htmlvalidator.com/lite/onlineval.php HTMLvalidator.com's Validator]
* [http://www.softwareqatest.com/qatweb1.html Software QA and Testing Resource Center]
* [http://www.tafweb.com/tagcheck.html HTML Tag Checker]
* [http://www.w3.org/People/Raggett/tidy/ W3.org Tidy Validator]

==CSS - Validation==

* [http://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/ W3.org's CSS Validator] (URL, upload, and direct paste in)
* [http://www.htmlhelp.com/tools/csscheck/ WDG and HTMLhelp.com's CSS Validator and Checker]

==Validation by Uploading Files==

* [http://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/ W3.org's CSS Validator]
* [http://www.htmlhelp.com/tools/csscheck/ WDG and HTMLhelp.com's CSS Validator and Checker] (URL, upload, and direct paste)
* [http://validator.w3.org/ The W3C's HTML Validation Service] (URL and upload)
* [http://www.htmlhelp.com/tools/validator/upload.html HTMLHelp's File Upload HTML Validator]

==Feeds Validation==

*[http://feedvalidator.org/ Feedvalidator.org] - for Atom and RSS feeds.
*[http://www.ldodds.com/rss_validator/1.0/validator.html Experimental RSS 1.0 Validator]
*[http://librdf.org/rss/ Redlands RSS 1.0 Validator]

==Validation Resources and Articles==

* [[Writing Code in Your Posts]]
* [http://www.squarefree.com/bookmarklets/validation.html Squarefree's Bookmarketlets] (JavaScript for web page testing)
* [http://www.walidator.com/ Walidator.com]
* [http://webdesign.about.com/library/weekly/aa041000a.htm Understanding How HTML Validators Work]
* [http://evolt.org/You_Call_That_Web_Site_Testing You Call That Web Site Testing?]

==Related==

* [[Accessibility]]

[[Category:WordPress Lessons]]