{{#dotorgredirect: https://wordpress.org/support/wordpress-version/version-2-6/}}
{{Languages|
{{en|Version 2.6}}
{{ja|Version 2.6}}
}}

__TOC__
On Monday, July 14, 2008, WordPress version 2.6, was released to the public. For information on the bug-fixes and enhancements in this version, see [[Changelog/2.6|Changelog for 2.6]].  

For [[Version_2.6|Version 2.6]], the database version ('''db_version''' in '''wp_options''') changed to 8201.

== New User Features ==
* Version/revision saves a copy of a post every time you edit it, allows you to view (not edit) each of those copies (revisions), Shows forward (in time) diffs between any two revisions.
* Display captions of images alongside them in posts and pages.
* Add paging of Themes in Design panel
* Word Count displayed when writing and editing posts and pages
* [[Press This]] bookmarklet
* Add sorting to gallery 
* Export/import post excerpts
* Theme Previewer
* Check (assigned) Categories at top Category box in Write/Manage Post
* Show when a term is both a tag and a category
* Wider Profile fields
* [[TinyMCE]] 3.1
* Two categories can have sub-categories with the same name

== Developer ==

* The default meta boxes on the post, page, and link edit page can be removed and replaced. They can be added via [[Function_Reference/add_meta_box|add_meta_box()]]
* Support for Google Gears managed offline storage
* Latest JQuery update
* Allow wp-config.php to exist one level up from WordPress root directory. New file wp-load.php designates location of wp-config.php file.
:* WP_CONTENT_DIR - full path
:* WP_CONTENT_URL - full url
:* WP_PLUGIN_DIR - full path
:* WP_PLUGIN_URL - full url
:* WP_LANG_DIR - full path
:* Deprecated constants declared with limited backwards compatibility.
::*PLUGINDIR
::*LANGDIR
::*MUPLUGINDIR ([[WPMU]] 2.6+ only)
* Add current_category option to [[Template_Tags/wp_list_categories|wp_list_categories()]]

== See Also ==

[[Version_2.6.5|Version 2.6.5]]
[[Version_2.6.2|Version 2.6.2]]

{{Versions}}

[[Category:Versions]]