{{#dotorgredirect: https://wordpress.org/support/wordpress-version/version-3-9-19/}}
{{ Release
  | version = 3.9.19
  | date=16 May 2017
  | status=was
}}

== Summary ==
  
From the [https://wordpress.org/news/2017/05/wordpress-4-7-5/ WordPress 4.7.5 release post]: WordPress versions 4.7.4 and earlier are affected by six security issues:

# Insufficient redirect validation in the HTTP class. Reported by [https://dk.linkedin.com/in/ronni-skansing-36143b65 Ronni Skansing].
# Improper handling of post meta data values in the XML-RPC API. Reported by [https://hackerone.com/jazzy2fives Sam Thomas].
# Lack of capability checks for post meta data in the XML-RPC API. Reported by [https://profiles.wordpress.org/vortfu Ben Bidner] of the WordPress Security Team.
# A Cross Site Request Forgery (CRSF)  vulnerability was discovered in the filesystem credentials dialog. Reported by [https://twitter.com/yorickkoster Yorick Koster].
# A cross-site scripting (XSS) vulnerability was discovered when attempting to upload very large files. Reported by [https://dk.linkedin.com/in/ronni-skansing-36143b65 Ronni Skansing].
# A cross-site scripting (XSS) vulnerability was discovered related to the Customizer. Reported by [https://profiles.wordpress.org/westonruter Weston Ruter] of the WordPress Security Team.
  
== List of Files Revised ==
 
<pre>
wp-admin/includes/file.php
wp-admin/js/customize-controls.js
wp-admin/js/customize-controls.min.js
wp-admin/about.php
wp-includes/class-wp-xmlrpc-server.php
wp-includes/class-wp-customize-manager.php
wp-includes/version.php
wp-includes/js/plupload/handlers.min.js
wp-includes/js/plupload/handlers.js
readme.html
</pre>