{{Languages|
{{en|Version 3.4.2}}
{{zh-cn|3.4.2 版本}}
{{zh-tw|3.4.2 版本}}
{{ru|Версия 3.4.2}}
}}
On September 6, 2012, WordPress 3.4.2 was released to the public. This is a maintenance and security update.

For version 3.4.2, the [[Glossary#Database_version|database version]] ('''db_version''' in '''wp_options''') changed to 21707.

== Installation/Update Information ==
To download WordPress 3.4.2, update automatically from the Dashboard > Updates menu in your site's admin area or visit http://wordpress.org/download/release-archive/.

For step-by-step instructions on installing and updating WordPress:
* [[Updating WordPress]]

If you are new to WordPress, we recommend that you begin with the following:
* [[New To WordPress - Where to Start]]
* [[First Steps With WordPress]] or [[Upgrading WordPress Extended]]
* [[WordPress Lessons]]

== Summary ==
From the [http://wordpress.org/news/2012/09/wordpress-3-4-2/ announcement post], this maintenance release addresses 18 bugs with version 3.4 and 3.4.1, including:

* Fixes some issues in the admin area where some older browsers (IE7, in particular) may slow down, lag, or freeze.
* Fixes an issue where a theme may not preview correctly, or its screenshot may not be displayed.
* Fixes the use of multiple trackback URLs in a post.
* Prevents improperly sized images from being uploaded as headers from the customizer.
* Ensures proper error messages can be shown to PHP4 installs. (WordPress requires PHP 5.2.4 or later.)
* Fixes handling of oEmbed providers that only return XML responses.
* Addresses pagination problems with some category permalink structures.
* Adds more fields to be returned from the XML-RPC wp.getPost method.
* Avoids errors when updating automatically from very old versions of WordPress (pre-3.0).
* Fixes problems with the visual editor when working with captions.

Additionally: Version 3.4.2 fixes a few security issues and contains some security hardening. These issues were discovered and addressed by the WordPress security team:

* Fix unfiltered HTML capabilities in multisite.
* Fix possible privilege escalation in the Atom Publishing Protocol endpoint.
* Allow operations on network plugins only through the network admin.
* Hardening: Simplify error messages when uploads fail.
* Hardening: Validate a parameter passed to wp_get_object_terms().

A full log of the changes made for 3.4.2 can be found at http://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset?old_path=%2Ftags%2F3.4.1&old=21780&new_path=%2Ftags%2F3.4.2&new=21780

== List of Files Revised ==
<pre>
wp-load.php
wp-includes/class-wp-atom-server.php
wp-includes/taxonomy.php
wp-includes/version.php
wp-includes/js/wp-lists.js
wp-includes/js/tinymce/plugins/wpeditimage/editor_plugin.js
wp-includes/js/tinymce/plugins/wpeditimage/editor_plugin_src.js
wp-includes/js/tinymce/langs/wp-langs.php
wp-includes/js/tinymce/wp-tinymce.js.gz
wp-includes/js/plupload/wp-plupload.js
wp-includes/js/plupload/wp-plupload.dev.js
wp-includes/js/imgareaselect/jquery.imgareaselect.dev.js
wp-includes/js/imgareaselect/jquery.imgareaselect.js
wp-includes/js/wp-lists.dev.js
wp-includes/class-wp-customize-control.php
wp-includes/class-wp-theme.php
wp-includes/theme.php
wp-includes/functions.php
wp-includes/load.php
wp-includes/class-wp-xmlrpc-server.php
wp-includes/formatting.php
wp-includes/rewrite.php
wp-includes/capabilities.php
wp-includes/class-oembed.php
wp-includes/css/editor.dev.css
wp-includes/css/editor.css
wp-includes/class-wp-editor.php
readme.html
wp-admin/includes/class-wp-ms-themes-list-table.php
wp-admin/includes/class-wp-upgrader.php
wp-admin/includes/meta-boxes.php
wp-admin/includes/class-wp-plugins-list-table.php
wp-admin/includes/update-core.php
wp-admin/includes/class-wp-themes-list-table.php
wp-admin/js/post.dev.js
wp-admin/js/link.js
wp-admin/js/customize-controls.js
wp-admin/js/link.dev.js
wp-admin/js/post.js
wp-admin/js/customize-controls.dev.js
wp-admin/index.php
wp-admin/plugins.php
wp-admin/setup-config.php
wp-admin/about.php
</pre>

{{Versions}}

[[Category:Versions]]