{{Languages|
{{en|Version 3.0.5}}
{{ja|Version_3.0.5}}
{{ru|Версия 3.0.5}}
{{th|รุ่น_3.0.5}}
}}

On February 7, 2011, WordPress 3.0.5 was released to the public. This is a security update for all previous WordPress versions.

For version 3.0.5, the database version ('''db_version''' in '''wp_options''') remained at 15477.

==Installation/Update Information==
To download WordPress 3.0.5, update automatically from the Dashboard > Updates menu in your site's admin area or visit http://wordpress.org/download/release-archive/.

For step-by-step instructions on installing and updating WordPress:
* [[Updating WordPress]]

If you are new to WordPress, we recommend that you begin with the following:
* [[New To WordPress - Where to Start]]
* [[First Steps With WordPress]] or [[Upgrading WordPress Extended]]
* [[WordPress Lessons]]

== Summary ==
* Fix XSS bug: Properly encode title used in Quick/Bulk Edit, and offer additional sanitization to various fields. Affects users of the Author or Contributor role. ([http://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/17397 r17397], [http://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/17406 r17406], [http://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/17412 r17412])
* Fix XSS bug: Preserve tag escaping in the tags meta box. Affects users of the Author or Contributor role. ([http://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/17401 r17401])
* Fix potential information disclosure of posts through the media uploader. Affects users of the Author role. ([http://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/17393 r17393])
* Enhancement: Force HTML filtering on comment text in the admin ([http://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/17400 r17400])
* Enhancement: Harden check_admin_referer() when called without arguments, which plugins should avoid. ([http://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/17387 r17387])
* Update the license to GPLv2 (or later) and update copyright information for the KSES library.

==List of Files Revised==
<pre>
wp-includes/default-filters.php
wp-includes/version.php
wp-includes/pluggable.php
wp-includes/kses.php
wp-includes/script-loader.php
readme.html
wp-admin/includes/post.php
wp-admin/includes/update-core.php
wp-admin/includes/template.php
wp-admin/js/post.dev.js
wp-admin/js/post.js
wp-admin/async-upload.php
</pre>

{{Versions}}

[[Category:Versions]]