{{#dotorgredirect: https://wordpress.org/support/wordpress-version/version-3-5-2/}}
{{Languages|
{{en|Version 3.5.2}}
{{ja|Version 3.5.2}}
{{zh-tw|3.5.2 版本}}
}}

On June 21, 2013, WordPress 3.5.2 was released to the public. This is a maintenance and security update.

== Installation/Update Information ==
To download WordPress 3.5.2, update automatically from the Dashboard > Updates menu in your site's admin area or visit http://wordpress.org/download/release-archive/.

For step-by-step instructions on installing and updating WordPress:
* [[Updating WordPress]]

If you are new to WordPress, we recommend that you begin with the following:
* [[New To WordPress - Where to Start]]
* [[First Steps With WordPress]] or [[Upgrading WordPress Extended]]
* [[WordPress Lessons]]

== Summary ==
From the [http://wordpress.org/news/2013/06/wordpress-3-5-2/ announcement post], this maintenance release addresses 12 bugs with version 3.5 and 3.5.1.

Additionally: Version 3.5.2 fixes seven security issues:

 * Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF) via the HTTP API. CVE-2013-2199.
 * Privilege Escalation: Contributors can publish posts, and users can reassign authorship. CVE-2013-2200.
 * Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) in SWFUpload. CVE-2013-2205.
 * Denial of Service (DoS) via Post Password Cookies. CVE-2013-2173.
 * Content Spoofing via Flash Applet in TinyMCE Media Plugin. CVE-2013-2204.
 * Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) when Uploading Media. CVE-2013-2201.
 * Full Path Disclosure (FPD) during File Upload. CVE-2013-2203.

Additional security hardening includes:
 * Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) (Low Severity) when Editing Media. CVE-2013-2201.
 * Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) (Low Severity) when Installing/Updating Plugins/Themes. CVE-2013-2201.
 * XML External Entity Injection (XXE) via oEmbed. CVE-2013-2202.

A full log of the changes made for 3.5.2 can be found at http://core.trac.wordpress.org/log/branches/3.5?rev=24498&stop_rev=23347.

== List of Files Revised ==
<pre>
readme.html
wp-admin/includes/media.php
wp-admin/includes/class-wp-importer.php
wp-admin/includes/file.php
wp-admin/includes/post.php
wp-admin/includes/upgrade.php
wp-admin/includes/schema.php
wp-admin/includes/class-wp-upgrader.php
wp-admin/includes/update-core.php
wp-admin/update.php
wp-admin/about.php
wp-admin/edit-form-advanced.php
wp-login.php
wp-includes/class-wp-xmlrpc-server.php
wp-includes/rss.php
wp-includes/functions.php
wp-includes/formatting.php
wp-includes/post.php
wp-includes/media-template.php
wp-includes/deprecated.php
wp-includes/wp-db.php
wp-includes/user.php
wp-includes/class-wp-admin-bar.php
wp-includes/version.php
wp-includes/class-phpass.php
wp-includes/comment.php
wp-includes/pluggable.php
wp-includes/class-feed.php
wp-includes/script-loader.php
wp-includes/class-http.php
wp-includes/js/media-editor.min.js
wp-includes/js/swfupload/swfupload-all.js
wp-includes/js/swfupload/handlers.js
wp-includes/js/swfupload/handlers.min.js
wp-includes/js/swfupload/swfupload.swf
wp-includes/js/plupload/handlers.js
wp-includes/js/plupload/handlers.min.js
wp-includes/js/tinymce/wp-tinymce.js.gz
wp-includes/js/tinymce/plugins/media/moxieplayer.swf
wp-includes/js/tinymce/tiny_mce.js
wp-includes/js/media-editor.js
wp-includes/class-oembed.php
wp-includes/post-template.php
wp-includes/http.php
</pre>

{{Versions}}

[[Category:Versions]]