{{Languages|
{{en|Version 3.8.2}}
{{ja|Version 3.8.2}}
}}

On April 8, 2014, WordPress 3.8.2 was released to the public. This is a security update for all previous WordPress versions.

== Installation/Update Information ==
To download WordPress 3.8.2, update automatically from the Dashboard > Updates menu in your site's admin area or visit http://wordpress.org/download/release-archive/.

For step-by-step instructions on installing and updating WordPress:
* [[Updating WordPress]]

If you are new to WordPress, we recommend that you begin with the following:
* [[New To WordPress - Where to Start]]
* [[First Steps With WordPress]] or [[Upgrading WordPress Extended]]
* [[WordPress Lessons]]

== Summary ==
From the [http://wordpress.org/news/2014/04/wordpress-3-8-2/ announcement post], this maintaintance release addresses 9 bugs with version 3.8 and 3.8.1. It also fixes some security issues:

* Potential authentication cookie forgery. CVE-2014-0166.
* Privilege escalation: prevent contributors from publishing posts. CVE-2014-0165.
* (Hardening) Pass along additional information when processing pingbacks to help hosts identify potentially abusive requests.
* (Hardening) Fix a low-impact SQL injection by trusted users.
* (Hardening) Prevent possible cross-domain scripting through Plupload, the third-party library WordPress uses for uploading files.

== List of Files Revised ==
<pre>
* wp-admin/about.php
* wp-admin/themes.php
* wp-admin/includes/post.php
* wp-admin/includes/class-wp-posts-list-table.php
* wp-admin/includes/class-wp-upgrader.php
* wp-includes/class-wp-xmlrpc-server.php
* wp-includes/bookmark.php
* wp-includes/query.php
* wp-includes/pluggable.php
* wp-includes/post-template.php
* wp-includes/update.php
* wp-includes/version.php
* wp-includes/js/plupload/plupload.silverlight.xap
* readme.html
</pre>

{{Versions}}

[[Category:Versions]]