{{Languages|
{{en|Version 4.3}}
{{ja|Version 4.3}}
}}

On August 18th, 2015, WordPress [[Version 4.3]], named after jazz musician Billie Holiday, was released to the public. For more information on this enhancement and bug-fix release, read the [https://wordpress.org/news/2015/08/billie/ WordPress Blog], and see the [[Changelog/4.3|Changelog for 4.3]].

For [[Version 4.3]], the database version ('''db_version''' in '''wp_options''') changed to 33055, and the [https://core.trac.wordpress.org Trac] revision was 33635.

* [http://trac.wordpress.org/query?status=closed&milestone=4.3 View Closed Tickets]

==Highlights==

* '''The Finer Points'''
**[[Resetting_Your_Password|Resetting Your Password]] received attention and 4.3 improves the way that passwords are chosen and changed. You start out with a strong password by default and you are given the option to keep it or choose your own. A password strength meter is available as well as the option to hide your password from prying eyes. You will find the new password interface on the password reset screen and the WordPress install screen. WordPress will no longer send passwords via email and the password reset links will expire in 24 hours. Finally, e-mail notifications will be sent out in the event that an e-mail or password is changed.
**Site owners can now manage their site’s favicon on desktop and mobile. Site Icons work out of the box, are theme independent, and do not require theme support.
**Multisite Focused Changes
**The main change to the [https://codex.wordpress.org/Writing_Posts Editor] is that the content for both Visual and Text editors is prepared/escaped the same (we run the textarea content through the JavaScript <code>wpautop()</code> before initializing TinyMCE).
**Comments are now turned off on pages and custom post types by default.

* '''For Developers'''
**Fast previewing changes to Menus in the Customizer
**A new theme template has been added to the [[Template Hierarchy]]. The <code>singular.php</code> template follows the rules of <code>is_singular</code> and is used for a single post, regardless of post type. It comes in the hierarchy after <code>single.php</code>, <code>page.php</code>, and the variations of each. Themes that used the same code for both of those files (or included one in the other) can now simplify down to the one template.
**Changes to Customizer Panels and Sections
**New Customizer Media Controls
**The [https://make.wordpress.org/core/2015/07/27/site-icon/ Site Icon] API is fairly straightforward. 
**PHP7 is slated for release later this year. One of the changes is that PHP4 style constructors are deprecated. In order to prepare WordPress to support PHP7, these constructors have been deprecated in WordPress core.
**Old Distraction Free Writing code has been removed (the code has not been used in the core since [[Version_4.1|4.1]]). Plugin authors have had two releases to update their code. If it is essential to your plugin, the files in [[Version_4.2|4.2]] can still be reused and improved.

==What's New==


===General===


===Posts===

* Formatting Shortcuts while using visual editor. 
** Use * or - to start an unordered list.
** Use 1. or 1) to start an ordered list.
** Use ## for H2 and ### for H3 (etc, through H6).
** Use > to transform text into blockquote.

===Media===


===Comments===

* All new pages that you create will have comments turned off by default.

===Appearance===

# '''Menus''' can now be managed with the '''Customizer''', which allows you to see "live" preview changes without changing your site for visitors until you are ready.
# '''Customizer''' improvements including '''enhanced accessibility''', smoother menu creation and location assignment, and the ability to handle nameless menus. 
# Take control of another piece of your site with the '''Site Icon''' feature. You can now manage your site’s favicon and app icon from the Admin area.
# '''Customize''' link added in the toolbar to swiftly make changes to your site.

===Users===

* '''Better Passwords'''. Password field will be automatically filled with a strong password, while adding new users and resetting the password.

===Install Process===

===Multisite===


===Accessibility===


==Under The Hood==

=== General ===


=== JavaScript ===


=== Bug Fixes ===
A total of [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/query?status=accepted&status=assigned&status=closed&status=new&status=reopened&status=reviewing&type=defect+(bug)&version=!&version=!trunk&resolution=fixed&milestone=4.3&col=id&col=summary&col=milestone&col=status&col=type&col=owner&col=priority&order=priority 180 bugs reported against previous versions of WordPress] were fixed.

=== Multisite ===


=== Classes ===

==== What's New ====

===== Customizer API =====
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_cropped_image_control/ WP_Customize_Cropped_Image_Control]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_manager/ WP_Customize_Manager->$registered_panel_types]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_manager/ WP_Customize_Manager->$registered_section_types]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_manager/register_panel_type/ WP_Customize_Manager::register_panel_type()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_manager/render_panel_templates/ WP_Customize_Manager::render_panel_templates()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_manager/register_section_type/ WP_Customize_Manager::register_section_type()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_manager/render_section_templates/ WP_Customize_Manager::render_section_templates()]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_nav_menu_auto_add_control/ WP_Customize_Nav_Menu_Auto_Add_Control]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_nav_menu_control/ WP_Customize_Nav_Menu_Control]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_nav_menu_item_control/ WP_Customize_Nav_Menu_Item_Control]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_nav_menu_item_setting/ WP_Customize_Nav_Menu_Item_Setting]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_nav_menu_location_control/ WP_Customize_Nav_Menu_Location_Control]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_nav_menu_section/ WP_Customize_Nav_Menu_Section]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_nav_menu_setting/ WP_Customize_Nav_Menu_Setting]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_nav_menus/ WP_Customize_Nav_Menus]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_nav_menus_panel/ WP_Customize_Nav_Menus_Panel]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_new_menu_control/ WP_Customize_New_Menu_Control]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_new_menu_section/ WP_Customize_New_Menu_Section]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_panel/print_template/ WP_Customize_Panel::print_template()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_panel/render_template/ WP_Customize_Panel::render_template()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_panel/content_template/ WP_Customize_Panel::content_template()]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_section/print_template/ WP_Customize_Section::print_template()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_section/render_template/ WP_Customize_Section::render_template()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_site_icon_control/ WP_Customize_Site_Icon_Control]

===== List Tables =====
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_links_list_table/get_default_primary_column_name/ WP_Links_List_Table::get_default_primary_column_name()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_links_list_table/column_cb/ WP_Links_List_Table::column_cb()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_links_list_table/column_name/ WP_Links_List_Table::column_name()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_links_list_table/column_url/ WP_Links_List_Table::column_url()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_links_list_table/column_categories/ WP_Links_List_Table::column_categories()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_links_list_table/column_rel/ WP_Links_List_Table::column_rel()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_links_list_table/column_visible/ WP_Links_List_Table::column_visible()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_links_list_table/column_rating/ WP_Links_List_Table::column_rating()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_links_list_table/column_default/ WP_Links_List_Table::column_default()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_links_list_table/handle_row_actions/ WP_Links_List_Table::handle_row_actions()]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_list_table/get_default_primary_column_name/ WP_List_Table::get_default_primary_column_name()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_list_table/get_primary_column_name/ WP_List_Table::get_primary_column_name()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_list_table/handle_row_actions/ WP_List_Table::handle_row_actions()]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_media_list_table/column_cb/ WP_Media_List_Table::column_cb()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_media_list_table/column_title/ WP_Media_List_Table::column_title()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_media_list_table/column_author/ WP_Media_List_Table::column_author()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_media_list_table/column_desc/ WP_Media_List_Table::column_desc()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_media_list_table/column_date/ WP_Media_List_Table::column_date()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_media_list_table/column_parent/ WP_Media_List_Table::column_parent()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_media_list_table/column_comments/ WP_Media_List_Table::column_comments()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_media_list_table/column_default/ WP_Media_List_Table::column_default()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_media_list_table/get_default_primary_column_name/ WP_Media_List_Table::get_default_primary_column_name()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_media_list_table/handle_row_actions/ WP_Media_List_Table::handle_row_actions()]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_ms_sites_list_table// WP_MS_Sites_List_Table->$status_list]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_ms_sites_list_table/column_cb/ WP_MS_Sites_List_Table::column_cb()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_ms_sites_list_table/column_blogname/ WP_MS_Sites_List_Table::column_blogname()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_ms_sites_list_table/column_lastupdated/ WP_MS_Sites_List_Table::column_lastupdated()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_ms_sites_list_table/column_registered/ WP_MS_Sites_List_Table::column_registered()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_ms_sites_list_table/column_users/ WP_MS_Sites_List_Table::column_users()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_ms_sites_list_table/column_plugins/ WP_MS_Sites_List_Table::column_plugins()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_ms_sites_list_table/column_default/ WP_MS_Sites_List_Table::column_default()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_ms_sites_list_table/get_default_primary_column_name/ WP_MS_Sites_List_Table::get_default_primary_column_name()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_ms_sites_list_table/handle_row_actions/ WP_MS_Sites_List_Table::handle_row_actions()]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_ms_themes_list_table/get_primary_column_name/ WP_MS_Themes_List_Table::get_primary_column_name()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_ms_themes_list_table/column_cb/ WP_MS_Themes_List_Table::column_cb()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_ms_themes_list_table/column_name/ WP_MS_Themes_List_Table::column_name()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_ms_themes_list_table/column_description/ WP_MS_Themes_List_Table::column_description()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_ms_themes_list_table/column_default/ WP_MS_Themes_List_Table::column_default()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_ms_themes_list_table/single_row_columns/ WP_MS_Themes_List_Table::single_row_columns()]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_ms_users_list_table/column_cb/ WP_MS_Users_List_Table::column_cb()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_ms_users_list_table/column_username/ WP_MS_Users_List_Table::column_username()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_ms_users_list_table/column_name/ WP_MS_Users_List_Table::column_name()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_ms_users_list_table/column_email/ WP_MS_Users_List_Table::column_email()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_ms_users_list_table/column_registered/ WP_MS_Users_List_Table::column_registered()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_ms_users_list_table/_column_blogs/ WP_MS_Users_List_Table::_column_blogs()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_ms_users_list_table/column_blogs/ WP_MS_Users_List_Table::column_blogs()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_ms_users_list_table/column_default/ WP_MS_Users_List_Table::column_default()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_ms_users_list_table/get_default_primary_column_name/ WP_MS_Users_List_Table::get_default_primary_column_name()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_ms_users_list_table/handle_row_actions/ WP_MS_Users_List_Table::handle_row_actions()]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_plugins_list_table/get_primary_column_name/ WP_Plugins_List_Table::get_primary_column_name()]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_posts_list_table// WP_Posts_List_Table->$current_level]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_posts_list_table/column_cb/ WP_Posts_List_Table::column_cb()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_posts_list_table/_column_title/ WP_Posts_List_Table::_column_title()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_posts_list_table/column_title/ WP_Posts_List_Table::column_title()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_posts_list_table/column_date/ WP_Posts_List_Table::column_date()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_posts_list_table/column_comments/ WP_Posts_List_Table::column_comments()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_posts_list_table/column_author/ WP_Posts_List_Table::column_author()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_posts_list_table/column_default/ WP_Posts_List_Table::column_default()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_posts_list_table/get_default_primary_column_name/ WP_Posts_List_Table::get_default_primary_column_name()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_posts_list_table/handle_row_actions/ WP_Posts_List_Table::handle_row_actions()]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_terms_list_table/get_default_primary_column_name/ WP_Terms_List_Table::get_default_primary_column_name()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_terms_list_table/handle_row_actions/ WP_Terms_List_Table::handle_row_actions()]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_users_list_table/get_default_primary_column_name/ WP_Users_List_Table::get_default_primary_column_name()]

===== Miscellaneous =====
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_comments_list_table/get_default_primary_column_name/ WP_Comments_List_Table::get_default_primary_column_name()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_comments_list_table/handle_row_actions/ WP_Comments_List_Table::handle_row_actions()]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_meta_query/ WP_Meta_Query->$has_or_relation]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_meta_query/has_or_relation/ WP_Meta_Query::has_or_relation()]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_site_icon/ WP_Site_Icon]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_upgrader/ WP_Upgrader::clear_destination()]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_user/__call/ WP_User::__call()]

==== Deprecated ====


=== Functions ===


==== What's New ====
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_ajax_crop_image wp_ajax_crop_image()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/split_all_shared_terms split_all_shared_terms()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_should_upgrade_global_tables wp_should_upgrade_global_tables()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_admin_bar_customize_menu wp_admin_bar_customize_menu()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_roles wp_roles()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/get_default_comment_status get_default_comment_status()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/atom_site_icon atom_site_icon()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/rss2_site_icon rss2_site_icon()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wptexturize_primes wptexturize_primes()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/convert_invalid_entities convert_invalid_entities()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/format_for_editor format_for_editor()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/_deprecated_constructor _deprecated_constructor()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/get_main_network_id get_main_network_id()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_post_preview_js wp_post_preview_js()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_site_icon wp_site_icon()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/get_language_attributes get_language_attributes()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_resolve_numeric_slug_conflicts wp_resolve_numeric_slug_conflicts()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/get_singular_template get_singular_template()]

==== Deprecated ====


=== Actions & Filters ===


==== New Actions ====
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/wp_ajax_crop_image_pre_save wp_ajax_crop_image_pre_save]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/add_user_role add_user_role]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/remove_user_role remove_user_role]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/deprecated_constructor_run deprecated_constructor_run]

==== New Filters ====
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/edit_comment_misc_actions edit_comment_misc_actions]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/wp_ajax_cropped_attachment_metadata wp_ajax_cropped_attachment_metadata]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/wp_ajax_cropped_attachment_id wp_ajax_cropped_attachment_id]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/list_table_primary_column list_table_primary_column]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/upgrader_package_options upgrader_package_options]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/nav_menu_items_post_type_name_recent nav_menu_items_{$post_type_name}_recent]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/get_the_author_field get_the_author_{$field}]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/wp_generate_tag_cloud_data wp_generate_tag_cloud_data]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/style_loader_tag style_loader_tag]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/get_default_comment_status get_default_comment_status]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/format_for_editor format_for_editor]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/deprecated_constructor_trigger_error deprecated_constructor_trigger_error]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/get_main_network_id get_main_network_id]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/site_icon_meta_tags site_icon_meta_tags]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/wp_get_attachment_image_src wp_get_attachment_image_src]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/wp_get_nav_menu_object wp_get_nav_menu_object]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/has_nav_menu has_nav_menu]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/wp_safe_redirect_fallback wp_safe_redirect_fallback]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/wp_unique_term_slug_is_bad_slug wp_unique_term_slug_is_bad_slug]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/wp_unique_term_slug wp_unique_term_slug]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/editor_stylesheets editor_stylesheets]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/send_password_change_email send_password_change_email]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/send_email_change_email send_email_change_email]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/password_change_email password_change_email]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/email_change_email email_change_email]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/password_reset_expiration password_reset_expiration]

==== Deprecated ====


=== External Libraries ===


=== Miscellaneous ===

{{Versions}}

[[Category:Versions]]