{{#dotorgredirect: https://wordpress.org/support/wordpress-version/version-4-7-3/}}
{{Languages|
{{en|Version_4.7.3}}
{{ja|Version_4.7.3}}
}}
{{ Release
  | version = 4.7.3
  | date=March 6, 2017
  | status=was
}}

== Summary ==

From the [https://wordpress.org/news/2017/03/wordpress-4-7-3-security-and-maintenance-release/ WordPress 4.7.3 release post]: WordPress versions 4.7.2 and earlier are affected by six security issues:

# Cross-site scripting (XSS) via media file metadata.  Reported by [https://www.securesolutions.no/ Chris Andrè Dale], [https://twitter.com/yorickkoster Yorick Koster], and Simon P. Briggs.
# Control characters can trick redirect URL validation.  Reported by [http://www.danielchatfield.com/ Daniel Chatfield].
# Unintended files can be deleted by administrators using the plugin deletion functionality.  Reported by [http://b.360.cn/ xuliang].
# Cross-site scripting (XSS) via video URL in YouTube embeds.  Reported by [https://twitter.com/marcs0h Marc Montpas].
# Cross-site scripting (XSS) via taxonomy term names.  Reported by [https://profiles.wordpress.org/deltamgm2 Delta].
# Cross-site request forgery (CSRF) in Press This leading to excessive use of server resources.  Reported by Sipke Mellema.

In addition to the security issues above, WordPress 4.7.3 contains 39 maintenance fixes to the 4.7 release series. For more information, consult the [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/query?status=closed&milestone=4.7.3&group=component&col=id&col=summary&col=component&col=status&col=owner&col=type&col=priority&col=keywords&order=priority list of changes].

== List of Files Revised ==
 
<pre>
wp-admin/js/common.js
wp-admin/js/customize-controls.min.js
wp-admin/js/editor.min.js
wp-admin/js/customize-nav-menus.min.js
wp-admin/js/tags-box.js
wp-admin/js/customize-controls.js
wp-admin/js/editor.js
wp-admin/js/customize-nav-menus.js
wp-admin/js/common.min.js
wp-admin/js/tags-box.min.js
wp-admin/plugins.php
wp-admin/includes/class-wp-press-this.php
wp-admin/includes/media.php
wp-admin/includes/image.php
wp-admin/about.php
wp-includes/embed.php
wp-includes/class-wp-customize-manager.php
wp-includes/rest-api.php
wp-includes/js/media-views.min.js
wp-includes/js/wp-api.js
wp-includes/js/tinymce/plugins/wpeditimage/plugin.min.js
wp-includes/js/tinymce/plugins/wpeditimage/plugin.js
wp-includes/js/tinymce/wp-tinymce.js.gz
wp-includes/js/customize-selective-refresh.min.js
wp-includes/js/media-views.js
wp-includes/js/customize-preview.min.js
wp-includes/js/customize-views.min.js
wp-includes/js/customize-selective-refresh.js
wp-includes/js/wp-api.min.js
wp-includes/js/customize-preview.js
wp-includes/js/customize-views.js
wp-includes/class-wp-image-editor-imagick.php
wp-includes/class-wp-customize-nav-menus.php
wp-includes/version.php
wp-includes/class-walker-page.php
wp-includes/pluggable.php
wp-includes/formatting.php
wp-includes/class-wp-customize-widgets.php
wp-includes/rest-api/class-wp-rest-request.php
wp-includes/rest-api/endpoints/class-wp-rest-posts-controller.php
wp-includes/rest-api/endpoints/class-wp-rest-revisions-controller.php
wp-includes/rest-api/endpoints/class-wp-rest-users-controller.php
wp-includes/class-wp-customize-setting.php
wp-includes/theme.php
wp-includes/functions.php
wp-includes/media.php
wp-includes/class-wp-http-requests-hooks.php
wp-includes/class-wp-taxonomy.php
wp-content/plugins
</pre>