{{Languages|
{{en|Version 4.2.3}}
{{ja|Version 4.2.3}}
}}

On July 23, 2015, WordPress 4.2.3 was released to the public. This is a security update for all previous WordPress versions.

== Installation/Update Information ==
To download WordPress 4.2.3, update automatically from the Dashboard > Updates menu in your site's admin area or visit https://wordpress.org/download/release-archive/.

For step-by-step instructions on installing and updating WordPress:
* [[Updating WordPress]]

If you are new to WordPress, we recommend that you begin with the following:
* [[New To WordPress - Where to Start]]
* [[First Steps With WordPress]] or [[Upgrading WordPress Extended]]
* [[WordPress Lessons]]

== Summary ==
From the [https://wordpress.org/news/2015/07/wordpress-4-2-3/ announcement post], WordPress 4.2.3 fixes a cross-site scripting vulnerability, which could allow users with the Contributor or Author role to compromise a site (CVE-2015-5623).

The release also fixes an issue where it was possible for a user with Subscriber permissions to create a draft through Quick Draft.

In addition to the security fixes, WordPress 4.2.3 contains fixes for 21 bugs from [[Version_4.2.2|4.2.2]], including:

* FIX - Upgrades: If a table has already been converted to <tt>utf8mb4</tt>, there's no need to try and convert it again. [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/32310 #32310]
* FIX - Remove a redundant index drop. [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31388 #31388]
* FIX - Don't upgrade global tables to <tt>utf8mb4</tt> when <tt>DO_NOT_UPGRADE_GLOBAL_TABLES</tt> is defined. [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/32154 #32154]
* FIX - Enable <tt>utf8mb4</tt> for MySQL extension users. [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/32127 #32127]
* FIX - Plugin update rely upon <tt>wp_update_plugins()</tt> to check the contents of the transient and return early if no request needs to be made. [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/32198 #32198]
* FIX - WPDB: When extracting the table name from a query, there is a 1000 character limit on the SQL string that would be searched. [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/32763 #32763]
* FIX - WPDB: When checking that text isn't too long to insert into a column, <tt>LONGTEXT</tt> columns could fail, as their length is longer than <tt>PHP_INT_MAX</tt>. [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/32165 #32165]
* FIX - Plugin update handles the case where the plugin is installed into a different directory than it previously existed in. [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/32465 #32465]
* FIX - Plugin update feature doesn't recognize errors [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/32473 #32473]
* FIX - Plugin update error messages lack detail [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/32435 #32435]
* FIX - Multiple plugin updates: Even if one of plugins update fails, allow further updates to continue. [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/32110 #32110]
* FIX - In <tt>comment_form()</tt>, ensure that filtered arguments contain all required default values. [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/32312 #32312] 
* FIX - WPDB: Remove some of the complexities in <tt>::strip_invalid_text()</tt> associated with switching character sets between queries. [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/32165 #32165] 
* FIX - WPDB: <tt>::strip_text_from_query()</tt> doesn't pass a length to <tt>::strip_invalid_text()</tt>, which was causing queries to fail when they contained characters that needed to be sanity checked by MySQL. [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/32279 #32279] 
* FIX - Emoji script is producing errors on pages with SVG content [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/32305 #32305] 
* FIX - Unable to drag widgets down page past certain length. [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/32094 #32094]
* FIX - TinyMCE: wpView: fix typo in createInstance that prevented instances from being reused. [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/32591 #32591] 
* FIX - SCRIPT_DEBUG check in <tt>print_emoji_detection_script()</tt> generated PHP Notices. [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/32118 #32118] 
* FIX - If the shortcode content contains HTML code, the TinyMCE View no longer works. [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/32078 #32078] 
* FIX - Better handling when the credential form is long (such as when SSH is active). [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/32435 #32435]
* FIX - <tt>sanitize_option</tt> didn't handle a <tt>WP_Error</tt> Object. [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/32350 #32350]

== List of Files Revised ==
<pre>
readme.html
wp-admin/about.php
wp-admin/js/dashboard.min.js
wp-admin/js/updates.min.js
wp-admin/js/common.js
wp-admin/js/widgets.js
wp-admin/js/dashboard.js
wp-admin/js/updates.js
wp-admin/js/common.min.js
wp-admin/js/widgets.min.js
wp-admin/css/forms.css
wp-admin/css/edit-rtl.css
wp-admin/css/login-rtl.min.css
wp-admin/css/press-this-rtl.css
wp-admin/css/widgets-rtl.css
wp-admin/css/press-this-rtl.min.css
wp-admin/css/edit.css
wp-admin/css/login.min.css
wp-admin/css/wp-admin-rtl.min.css
wp-admin/css/press-this.css
wp-admin/css/widgets.css
wp-admin/css/press-this.min.css
wp-admin/css/forms-rtl.css
wp-admin/css/wp-admin.min.css
wp-admin/includes/ajax-actions.php
wp-admin/includes/dashboard.php
wp-admin/includes/upgrade.php
wp-admin/post.php
wp-includes/capabilities.php
wp-includes/class-wp-embed.php
wp-includes/kses.php
wp-includes/wp-db.php
wp-includes/shortcodes.php
wp-includes/version.php
wp-includes/formatting.php
wp-includes/comment-template.php
wp-includes/js/media-audiovideo.js
wp-includes/js/wp-emoji.min.js
wp-includes/js/mce-view.min.js
wp-includes/js/wp-emoji.js
wp-includes/js/tinymce/plugins/wpview/plugin.js
wp-includes/js/tinymce/plugins/wpview/plugin.min.js
wp-includes/js/tinymce/wp-tinymce.js.gz
wp-includes/js/mce-view.js
wp-includes/js/media-audiovideo.min.js
wp-includes/js/wp-emoji-release.min.js
</pre>

{{Versions}}

[[Category:Versions]]