{{#dotorgredirect: https://wordpress.org/support/wordpress-version/version-1-5-1/}}
:''Update: In our effort to optimize, we made two mistakes in 1.5.1, one related to feeds and one related to trackbacks and pingbacks. We’ve [http://wordpress.org/download/ updated the download] with 1.5.1.1 which corrects these bugs and a few others.''


To install the new release, follow the instructions listed below.  If you haven't upgraded to 1.5.1, follow the instructions below and make sure you have downloaded the newest version, 1.5.1.2. You do not have to install version 1.5.1 first.

----

As of Monday, May 9, 2005, WordPress version 1.5.1 was released to the public. Specific information on downloading and the new features of 1.5.1 can be found at [http://wordpress.org/development/2005/05/one-five-one/ WordPress Development 1.5.1]. For information on the changes and improvements in this new version, see [[Changelog/1.5.1|Changelog for 1.5.1]].

=Installation/Upgrade Information=
To download WordPress 1.5.1, vist http://wordpress.org/download/release-archive/

For step-by-step instructions on installing and upgrading WordPress:

* [[Upgrading WordPress]]
* WordPress Forum Discussion with how-to steps and troubleshooting: [http://wordpress.org/support/topic/33189 Upgrade 1.5 > 1.5.1]

If you are new to WordPress, we recommend that you begin with the following:
* [[New To WordPress - Where to Start]]
* [[First Steps With WordPress]]
* [[WordPress Lessons]]

=New Features/Fixes=
There have been more than 170 problems and issues fixed and repaired in this upgrade, including a few enhancements and security fixes.  New [[Plugin_API|API hooks]] and functionality have been added to help [[Writing_a_Plugin|Plugin Authors]] make advanced [[Plugins|extensions]] to WordPress even easier. As a user you’ll find WordPress will run faster and be a bit more helpful as you develop your site.

With the new [[Using Themes|theme system]] in place, upgrading is easier than ever, without risk to most of your customized WordPress site template files.

=Things You Should Know About 1.5.1=
We are working on a features list and more information about the new release, but for now, here are a few links to more information that might help you with the new version.

* [http://wordpress.org/support/topic/33405 Return Next Page QuickTag Button]
* [http://wordpress.org/support/topic/33349 Reports of Successful Upgrades and Installs]

{{Versions}}

[[Category:Versions]]