{{Languages|
{{en|Version 4.9.3}}
{{ja|Version 4.9.3}}
}}
{{ Release
 | version = 4.9.3
 | date=5 February, 2018
 | status=was
}}
== Summary ==

From the [https://wordpress.org/news/2018/02/wordpress-4-9-3-maintenance-release/ WordPress 4.9.3 release post]: This maintenance release fixes 34 bugs in 4.9, including fixes for Customizer changesets, widgets, visual editor, and PHP 7.2 compatibility.

WordPress 4.9.3 contains 34 bug fixes.

Canonical URLs
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/15397 #15397] - Redirect to the correct URL when the post date changes.
Code Editor
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42802 #42802] - Disable attr-value-double-quotes HTMLHint rule since too strict for user input.
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42586 #42586] - Add Ctrl/Cmd+F as aliases for persistent search for more intuitive behaviour.
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42850 #42850] - Replaces JSHint with esprima.
Customize 
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42497 #42497] - Improve accuracy of message displayed when accessing Customizer with a changeset that is already published or trashed.
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42674 #42674] - Prevent showing SFTP theme installation notification in multisite when user cannot install themes.
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42655 #42655] - Use changeset-specific "locked" messages when branching is enabled.
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42975 #42975] - Prevent frontend previewing from causing a customization lock on the changeset.
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42686 #42686] - Let default status for Customizer be draft if user does not have capability to publish.
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42565 #42565] - Correct "Add Items" button reference in help text shown after creating a new menu.
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42450 #42450] - Ensure customize_autosaved requests only use revision of logged-in user.
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42991 #42991] - Include nav menu item for Home custom link in search results for "Home".
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42495 #42495] - Ensure media playlists get initialized after selective refresh; expose new wp.playlist.initialize() API.
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42658 #42658] - Ensure heartbeat keeps changeset locked when in branching mode.
Email
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42693 #42693] - Don't send notifications for site or network admin email address change to the default 'admin_email' value.
Emoji
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42862 #42862] - Update Twemoji to 2.4.0.
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42862 #42862] - Update emoji base URL in _print_emoji_detection_script() and wp_staticize_emoji().
Media
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/43088 #43088] - Restore white background of the content area in media modal.
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42643 #42643] - Introduce a custom error handler for MediaElement.js to display a download link if a FLV file cannot be rendered for any reason.
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42646 #42646] - Store and reuse image cropper ratio settings if available, instead of overwriting.
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42646 #42646] - Fix JSHint error after #42595.
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/39859 #39859] - Avoid page scrolling when opening the media modal.
Plugins
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/43016 #43016] - Update review filter links in Details modal.
REST API
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42597 #42597] - Add existing term_id to the error data object when attempting to create a duplicate term.
Role/Capability
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42697 #42697] - Make install_languages capability check less restrictive.
TinyMCE
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/43090 #43090] - On the toolbar drop-downs apply overflow style on the actual element with text.
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42908 #42908] - When keeping the scroll position treat all shortcodes as preview-able.
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42722 #42722] - Backport bug fixes to NotificationManager, WindowManager and MultiRange.
Upgrade/Install
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/43005 #43005] - In postMessage events handler, check for message object existence before checking its action property.
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/43103 #43103] - Only trigger Background Update processes from within the core update check when a core autoupdate is on offer.
Widget
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/43003 #43003] - Prevent checkValidity from running on a form when widget is first adding to sidebar.
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/42740 #42740] - Allow relative/partial URLs in Image Widget's link field.
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/43125 #43125] - Ensure media is explicitly enqueued from Text widget in case Media widgets are unregistered.
WPDB
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/43109 #43109] - Use a PCRE syntax which supports PCRE compiled between 2003 and 2006.

== List of Files Revised ==

<pre>
wp-admin/about.php
wp-admin/css/widgets.css
wp-admin/customize.php
wp-admin/includes/plugin-install.php
wp-admin/js/customize-controls.js
wp-admin/js/editor.js
wp-admin/js/updates.js
wp-admin/js/widgets.js
wp-admin/network/settings.php
wp-admin/network/site-new.php
wp-admin/options-general.php
wp-admin/options.php
wp-includes/capabilities.php
wp-includes/class-wp-customize-manager.php
wp-includes/class-wp-customize-nav-menus.php
wp-includes/class-wp-query.php
wp-includes/css/editor.css
wp-includes/customize/class-wp-customize-nav-menu-control.php
wp-includes/default-filters.php
wp-includes/formatting.php
wp-includes/functions.php
wp-includes/general-template.php
wp-includes/js/codemirror/jshint.js
wp-includes/js/customize-selective-refresh.js
wp-includes/js/media-views.js
wp-includes/js/media/views/cropper.js
wp-includes/js/media/views/modal.js
wp-includes/js/mediaelement/wp-mediaelement.js
wp-includes/js/mediaelement/wp-playlist.js
wp-includes/js/tinymce/tinymce.js
wp-includes/js/tinymce/tinymce.min.js
wp-includes/js/twemoji.js
wp-includes/js/wp-emoji-loader.js
wp-includes/media-template.php
wp-includes/ms-functions.php
wp-includes/post.php
wp-includes/query.php
wp-includes/rest-api/endpoints/class-wp-rest-terms-controller.php
wp-includes/script-loader.php
wp-includes/update.php
wp-includes/version.php
wp-includes/widgets/class-wp-widget-media-image.php
wp-includes/widgets/class-wp-widget-text.php
wp-includes/wp-db.php
</pre>