{{Languages|
{{en|Version 3.3.3}}
}}

On June 27, 2012, [[Version 3.3.3]] was released for those who haven't yet updated to the 3.4 branch.  It was an unannounced security fix release.  At the same time, [[Version 3.4.1]] was released to the public.

This is a security update for all previous WordPress versions.

For version 3.3.3, the database version ('''db_version''' in '''wp_options''') remained at 19470.

==Installation/Update Information==
To download WordPress 3.3.3, visit http://wordpress.org/download/release-archive/.

For step-by-step instructions on installing and updating WordPress:
* [[Updating WordPress]]

If you are new to WordPress, we recommend that you begin with the following:
* [[New To WordPress - Where to Start]]
* [[First Steps With WordPress]] or [[Upgrading WordPress Extended]]
* [[WordPress Lessons]]

== Summary ==
Version 3.3.3 was released at the same time as [[Version 3.4.1]] to address security vulnerabilities affecting the 3.3 branch that were fixed in either [[Version 3.4]] or [[Version 3.4.1]]:

* Cross-Site Scripting: Fix persistent XSS via editable slug fields. (Also fixed in 3.4.0.)
* Hardening: Deprecate wp_explain_nonce(), which could reveal unnecessary information. (Also fixed in 3.4.1.)
* Hardening: Require a child theme to be activated with its intended parent only. (Also fixed in 3.4.1.)
* Information Disclosure: Restrict some post IDs when dealing with media uploading, which could leak some info (or attach media to a post the user doesn’t have privileges to). (Also fixed in 3.4.0.)
* Information Disclosure: Hide post excerpts when the user cannot read the whole post (e.g. a contributor can’t read someone else’s draft beyond the title). (Also fixed in 3.4.0.)
* XSS Hardening: Escape the output of get_pagenum_link(). Note that this function was previously considered to have returned unescaped data, so this was not a vulnerability, but an enhancement. (Also fixed in 3.4.0.)
* CSRF Hardening: Prevent unfiltered HTML in comments when there is potential for clickjacking (i.e. when the front-end of the site is loaded in a frame). (Also fixed in 3.4.0.)

For the complete list of changesets: http://core.trac.wordpress.org/log/branches/3.3?rev=21147&stop_rev=21082&verbose=on

==List of Files Revised==
<pre>
wp-includes/default-filters.php
wp-includes/version.php
wp-includes/functions.php
wp-includes/link-template.php
wp-includes/capabilities.php
readme.html
wp-admin/includes/class-wp-posts-list-table.php
wp-admin/includes/class-wp-upgrader.php
wp-admin/includes/update-core.php
wp-admin/includes/class-wp-themes-list-table.php
wp-admin/media-upload.php
wp-admin/about.php
wp-admin/themes.php
</pre>

{{Versions}}

[[Category:Versions]]