{{#dotorgredirect: https://wordpress.org/support/wordpress-version/version-3-0-2/}}
{{Languages|
{{en|Version 3.0.2}}
{{ja|Version 3.0.2}}
{{ru|Версия 3.0.2}}
{{th|รุ่น 3.0.2}}
}}

On November 30, 2010, WordPress 3.0.2 was released to the public. This was a mandatory security update for all previous WordPress versions.

For version 3.0.2,  the database version ('''db_version''' in '''wp_options''') remained at 15477.

==Installation/Update Information==
To download WordPress 3.0.2, update automatically from the Dashboard > Updates menu in your site's admin area or visit http://wordpress.org/download/release-archive/.

For step-by-step instructions on installing and updating WordPress:

* [[Updating WordPress]]

If you are new to WordPress, we recommend that you begin with the following:
* [[New To WordPress - Where to Start]]
* [[First Steps With WordPress]] or [[Upgrading WordPress Extended]]
* [[WordPress Lessons]]

== Summary ==
* Fix moderate security issue where a malicious Author-level user could gain further access to the site. ([http://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/16625 r16625])

Other bugs and security hardening:
* Remove pingback/trackback blogroll whitelisting feature as it can easily be abused. ([http://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/13887 #13887])
* Fix canonical redirection for permalinks containing %category% with nested categories and paging. ([http://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/13471 #13471])
* Fix occasional irrelevant error messages on plugin activation. ([http://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/15062 #15062])
* Minor XSS fixes in request_filesystem_credentials() and when deleting a plugin. ([http://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/16367 r16367], [http://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/16373 r16373])
* Clarify the license in the readme ([http://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/15534 r15534])
* Multisite: Fix the delete_user meta capability ([http://core.trac.wordpress.org/changeset/15562 r15562])
* Multisite: Force current_user_can_for_blog() to run map_meta_cap() even for super admins ([http://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/15122 #15122])
* Multisite: Fix ms-files.php content type headers when requesting a URL with a query string ([http://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/14450 #14450])
* Multisite: Fix the usage of the SUBDOMAIN_INSTALL constant for upgraded WordPress MU installs ([http://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/14536 #14536])

==List of Files Revised==
<pre>
wp-includes/ms-files.php
wp-includes/version.php
wp-includes/comment.php
wp-includes/functions.php
wp-includes/load.php
wp-includes/canonical.php
wp-includes/capabilities.php
readme.html
wp-admin/includes/plugin.php
wp-admin/includes/file.php
wp-admin/includes/update-core.php
wp-admin/plugins.php
</pre>

{{Versions}}

[[Category:Versions]]