{{#dotorgredirect: https://wordpress.org/support/wordpress-version/version-4-0-14/}}
{{Languages|
{{en|Version 4.0.14}}
}}
{{ Release
  | version = 4.0.14
  | date=11 Jan, 2017
  | status=was
}}

== Summary ==
  
From the [https://wordpress.org/news/2017/01/wordpress-4-7-1-security-and-maintenance-release/ WordPress 4.7.1 release post]: WordPress versions 4.7 and earlier are affected by seven security issues:

# Remote code execution (RCE) in PHPMailer – ''No specific issue appears to affect WordPress'' or any of the major plugins we investigated but, out of an abundance of caution, we updated PHPMailer in this release. This issue was reported to PHPMailer by [https://legalhackers.com/ Dawid Golunski] and [https://twitter.com/Zenexer Paul Buonopane].
# Cross-site scripting (XSS) via the plugin name or version header on <code>update-core.php</code>. Reported by [https://dominikschilling.de/ Dominik Schilling] of the WordPress Security Team.
# Cross-site request forgery (CSRF) bypass via uploading a Flash file. Reported by [https://twitter.com/Abdulahhusam Abdullah Hussam].
# Cross-site scripting (XSS) via theme name fallback. Reported by [https://pentest.blog/ Mehmet Ince].
# Post via email checks <code>mail.example.com</code> if default settings aren’t changed. Reported by John Blackbourn of the WordPress Security Team.
# A cross-site request forgery (CSRF) was discovered in the accessibility mode of widget editing. Reported by [https://dk.linkedin.com/in/ronni-skansing-36143b65 Ronnie Skansing].
# Weak cryptographic security for multisite activation key. Reported by [https://itsjack.cc/ Jack].

== List of Files Revised ==
 
<pre>
wp-admin/about.php
wp-admin/widgets.php
wp-admin/update-core.php
wp-admin/includes/media.php
wp-admin/includes/screen.php
wp-includes/class-phpmailer.php
wp-includes/version.php
wp-includes/functions.php
wp-includes/ms-functions.php
wp-includes/class-smtp.php
wp-includes/class-wp-theme.php
wp-mail.php
license.txt
readme.html
</pre>