{{Languages|
{{en|Version 3.1.3}}
{{th|รุ่น_3.1.3}}
{{zh-cn|3.1.3 版本}}
{{ru|Версия 3.1.3}}
}}

On May 25, 2011, WordPress 3.1.3 was released to the public. This is a security update for all previous WordPress versions.

For version 3.1.3, the database version ('''db_version''' in '''wp_options''') remained at 17516.

==Installation/Update Information==
To download WordPress 3.1.3, update automatically from the Dashboard > Updates menu in your site's admin area or visit http://wordpress.org/download/release-archive/.

For step-by-step instructions on installing and updating WordPress:
* [[Updating WordPress]]

If you are new to WordPress, we recommend that you begin with the following:
* [[New To WordPress - Where to Start]]
* [[First Steps With WordPress]] or [[Upgrading WordPress Extended]]
* [[WordPress Lessons]]

== Summary ==

* Various security hardening by Alexander Concha.
* Taxonomy query hardening by John Lamansky.
* Prevent sniffing out user names of non-authors by using canonical redirects. Props Verónica Valeros.
* Media security fixes by Richard Lundeen of Microsoft, Jesse Ou of Microsoft, and Microsoft Vulnerability Research.
* Improves file upload security on hosts with dangerous security settings.
* Cleans up old WordPress import files if the import does not finish.
* Introduce “clickjacking” protection in modern browsers on admin and login pages.

==List of Files Revised==
<pre>
readme.html
wp-login.php
wp-app.php
wp-includes/default-filters.php
wp-includes/taxonomy.php
wp-includes/post.php
wp-includes/theme.php
wp-includes/functions.php
wp-includes/formatting.php
wp-includes/canonical.php
wp-includes/class-oembed.php
wp-includes/meta.php
wp-includes/version.php
wp-admin/admin-ajax.php
wp-admin/includes/post.php 
wp-admin/includes/class-wp-plugins-list-table.php 
wp-admin/includes/import.php 
wp-admin/includes/template.php 
wp-admin/includes/media.php
wp-admin/ms-delete-site.php
wp-admin/custom-header.php
wp-admin/plugins.php 
wp-admin/press-this.php 
wp-admin/custom-background.php 
</pre>

{{Versions}}

[[Category:Versions]]