{{Languages|
{{en|Version 4.2}}
{{ja|Version 4.2}}
{{ru|Версия 4.2}}
}}

On April 23, 2015, WordPress [[Version 4.2]], named for jazz musician Bud Powell, will be released to the public. For more information on this enhancement and bug-fix release, read the [http://wordpress.org/news/ WordPress Blog], and see the [[Changelog/4.2|Changelog for 4.2]].

For [[Version 4.2]], the database version ('''db_version''' in '''wp_options''') changed to 31532, and the [https://core.trac.wordpress.org Trac] revision was 32282.

* [http://trac.wordpress.org/query?status=closed&milestone=4.2 View Closed Tickets]

==Highlights==

* '''The Finer Points'''
** [[Press This]] has been completely revamped. Clip it, edit it, publish it. Get familiar with the new and improved Press This. From the Tools menu, add Press This to your browser bookmark bar or your mobile device home screen. Once installed you can share your content with lightning speed. Sharing your favorite videos, images, and content has never been this fast or this easy.
** Now you can browse and switch installed themes in the [[Theme_Customization_API|Customizer]]. Browse and preview your installed themes from the Customizer. Make sure the theme looks great with your content, before it debuts on your site.
** More intuitive plugin update and install from the [[Plugins Screen]]. Goodbye boring loading screen, hello smooth and simple plugin updates. Click Update Now and watch the magic happen.
** Writing in WordPress, whatever your language, just got better. WordPress 4.2 supports a host of new characters out-of-the-box, including native Chinese, Japanese, and Korean characters, musical and mathematical symbols, and hieroglyphs. Don’t use any of those characters? You can still have fun — emoji are now available in WordPress! Get creative and decorate your content with 💙, 🐸, 🐒, 🍕, and all the many other [[emoji]].

* '''For Developers'''
** The new [https://make.wordpress.org/accessibility/2015/04/15/let-wordpress-speak-new-in-wordpress-4-2/ wp.a11y.speak() API] is available. When a change on the page happens, you can make sure that screen reader users are notified with this helper.
** The [https://make.wordpress.org/core/2015/04/05/updates-to-the-default-admin-color-scheme/ default admin color scheme] has been tweaked. Minor, but if you use the WordPress colors directly in your code, you should update the code.
** When possible, WordPress now will use [https://make.wordpress.org/core/2015/04/02/the-utf8mb4-upgrade/ utf8mb4 as the database character set].
** Terms shared across multiple taxonomies will now be split into separate terms when one of them is updated.
** The [https://make.wordpress.org/core/2015/04/23/tinymce-views-api-improvements/ experimental TinyMCE views API] has continued to evolve. As this is an experimental API, use in production is not recommended unless you closely follow the development as breaking changes are possible.
** Two UI components used by core, [https://make.wordpress.org/core/2015/04/23/spinners-and-dismissible-admin-notices-in-4-2/ spinners and admin notices], have been improved. The change to spinners is a change to how they are added and the change to admin notices is the ability to optionally make them dismissible.
** Complex queries - Support specific <tt>meta_query</tt> clauses to be used with <tt>orderby</tt>, added to [[Class_Reference/WP_Query|WP_Query]], [[Class_Reference/WP_Comment_Query|WP_Comment_Query]], and [[Class_Reference/WP_User_Query|WP_User_Query]]

==What's New==


===General===


===Posts===


===Media===


===Comments===


===Appearance===


===Users===


===Install Process===
* Shiny Plugin Updates

===Multisite===


===Accessibility===
* wp_a11y_speak

==Under The Hood==

* Unit test info here
* Update readme recommendations. 
* Change WP_Filesystem_FTPext::exists() and WP_Filesystem_ftpsockets::exists() to return true for empty directories.

=== General ===
* Replace generic “Dear user” greeting in email notifications with a more personalized one. 
* Improved usability on mobile devices
* Improved behavior when switching between admin color schemes. 
* Update the default admin color scheme for more unity and refinement.
* RTL improvements
* Gravatars: Enable HiDPI versions for browsers that support srcset. 
* Improve cache behavior with multisite and plugins

=== Administration ===
* Themes: Hide admin toolbar on smaller screens, reduce page 'jump'
* Star ratings: Color scheme improvements
* Nav menus: Better JS performance on initial load of edit screen. 
* Settings API: Allow passing a class to add_settings_field() via the $args array.
* Introduce a logout_redirect filter so the redirect destination can be changed when a user logs out. 
* Dashboard: Add a filter for the query arguments used for the Recent Posts widget. 
* Screen Options: Improve items per page option label. Add a default label “Number of items per page:” to WP_Screen->render_per_page_options() and remove all the existing one-word labels.
* Remove single-use URL parameters and create canonical link based on new URL.
* Admin notices: Make (most) core notices dismissible. These no longer return upon refreshing the page when JS is on and working, so users should be able to dismiss them.

=== Comments ===
* Comments: Show more identifying information for moderation and editing.
* Move HTML tags for screen reader text into translatable strings.
* Improve method consistency in WP_Comment_Query. These changes bring WP_Comment_Query syntax closer to that of WP_Query. 
* Improved behavior with screen readers

=== Customizer ===
* Theme Switcher improvements for handling widgets and functioning on mobile
* Improved parity of design with other admin pages (such as hiding front page option if there are no pages)
* Add loading indicators for the Customizer preview. 
* Add audio/video previews for upload controls.
* Added unit tests

=== Database ===
* If a site is using the utf8 charset, and their version of MySQL supports utf8mb4, auto-upgrade them to utf8mb4. 
* Improve HHVM compatibility.

=== Editor ===
* Always refresh the view after updating a gallery. 
* Ensure the image toolbar stays visible when the image is much wider than the editor. 

=== Embeds ===
* Improved safe degredation of oEmbed discovery failures 
* Remove oEmbed support for Revision3. 
* Allow https URLs for Instagram embeds, and switch to https for its oEmbed API endpoint. 
* Add oEmbed support for Kickstarter. 
* Add oEmbed support for Tumblr.

=== Emoji ===
* Add emoji support, with Twemoji fallback for displaying slugs in wp-admin, when the browser doesn’t natively support emoji. 

=== Feeds ===
* Enable more flexibility for non-URL GUIDs. 

=== Media ===
* Fix display issues with IE8 and below
* Allow inline editing of width and height parameters while previewing an embed in the media modal. 
* Allow attachments to be detached from their parent in media grid and list modes. 

=== Multisite ===
* Use get_admin_url() to get the correct My Sites URL without calling switch_to_blog() directly. 
* Create the My Sites URL in the context of a user’s primary site.
* Improve experience when deleting users from a multisite network.

=== Plugins ===
* Design tweaks to plugin display banners

=== Posts, Post Types, & Pages ===
* Reduce processing time, database queries, and memory use on sites with a high number of Pages when listing page views.

=== Press This ===

* Add missing access modifiers to WP_Press_This. 
* Add press-this.css to the list of stylesheets that are minified and to list of RTL styles.[31572] 
* Make sure buttons.css is loaded before press-this.css. 
* Use correct URL for update bookmarklet link. 
* Go back to loading the minified bookmarklet content with file_get_contents(). Add Grunt task to minify bookmarklet.js on precommit and update it in /src. 
* Improve handling of the data, both from the bookmarklet and from server-side parsing. 
* Remove unneeded passing of post formats strings to JS. Set the currently selected post format name with jQuery.
* Remove obsolete help tab in Settings -> Writing. 
* update _limit_url(), use esc_url_raw(). 
* Filter and select the content on the PHP side. Then pass only the needed data to JS. 
* Add preview functionality. Opens the preview in a new window or a tab next to the source tab.

=== Script Loader  ===
* jQuery UI: Add missing dependencies for puff and scale effects.
* Separate the tests for IE conditional comments support in WP_Scripts. 
* jQuery UI: Add jquery-ui-core as dependency for jquery-ui-progressbar.
* Load json2.js only in IE7 and older.

=== Taxonomy ===
* Split shared taxonomy terms on term update.

=== Themes ===
* Improved display of themes in admin with color contrast and Chrome compatibility
* Add feedback for screen readers when search results are changed. 

==== Bundled Themes ====
* Update CSS rules for .screen-reader-text to be consistent with current accessibility guidelines. 
* Fill in support for screen-reader-text class.
* Escaping and minor code style issues. 
* add ARIA attributes where applicable
* Use SSL for theme and author URIs.
* Update editor styles to better display images and captions in small screens.
* Update Translations
* Twenty Fourteen:
** Make twentyfourteen_post_thumbnail() pluggable. 
* Twenty Fifteen:
** move RSS icon style rule lower to prevent it from being overridden by other social icon rules.

=== TinyMCE ===
* Update TinyMCE to 4.1.9. 
* Add wp.a11y.speak() for audible alerts/updates in screen readers. 
* Prepend ​http:// to pasted URLs.
* Better docs and structure
* Improve embed previews

=== Updates, Upgrades, Installs ===
* Shiny Updates: Allow plugins to update 'in place'

=== Users ===
* Update the password strength indicator when creating new users.

=== Bug Fixes ===
A total of [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/query?status=accepted&status=assigned&status=closed&status=new&status=reopened&status=reviewing&type=defect+(bug)&version=!&version=!trunk&resolution=fixed&milestone=4.2&col=id&col=summary&col=milestone&col=status&col=type&col=owner&col=priority&order=priority 231 bugs reported against previous versions of WordPress] were fixed.

=== Classes ===

==== What's New ====

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_meta_query/get_clauses WP_Meta_Query::get_clauses()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_meta_query/__construct WP_Meta_Query::__construct()]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_comment_query/__construct WP_Comment_Query::__construct()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_comment_query/parse_query WP_Comment_Query::parse_query()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_comment_query/get_comments WP_Comment_Query::get_comments()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_comment_query/parse_orderby WP_Comment_Query::parse_orderby()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_comment_query/parse_order WP_Comment_Query::parse_order()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_comment_query/query WP_Comment_Query::query()]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_widgets/refresh_nonces WP_Customize_Widgets::refresh_nonces()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_widgets/get_captured_option WP_Customize_Widgets::get_captured_option()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_widgets/filter_customize_dynamic_setting_args WP_Customize_Widgets::filter_customize_dynamic_setting_args()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_widgets/get_setting_type WP_Customize_Widgets::get_setting_type()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_widgets/register_settings WP_Customize_Widgets::register_settings()]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_themes_section WP_Customize_Themes_Section]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_setting/is_current_blog_previewed WP_Customize_Setting::is_current_blog_previewed()]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_manager/doing_ajax WP_Customize_Manager::doing_ajax()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_manager/refresh_nonces WP_Customize_Manager::refresh_nonces()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_manager/add_dynamic_settings WP_Customize_Manager::add_dynamic_settings()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_manager/register_dynamic_settings WP_Customize_Manager::register_dynamic_settings()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_manager/set_post_value WP_Customize_Manager::set_post_value()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_manager/customize_preview_loading_style WP_Customize_Manager::customize_preview_loading_style()]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_media_control/enqueue WP_Customize_Media_Control::enqueue()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_media_control/to_json WP_Customize_Media_Control::to_json()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_media_control/render_content WP_Customize_Media_Control::render_content()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_media_control/content_template WP_Customize_Media_Control::content_template()]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_theme_control WP_Customize_Theme_Control]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_customize_media_control WP_Customize_Media_Control]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_user_query/parse_order WP_User_Query::parse_order()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_user_query/parse_orderby WP_User_Query::parse_orderby()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_user_query/prepare_query WP_User_Query::prepare_query()]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_press_this WP_Press_This]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wpdb/strip_invalid_text_for_column wpdb::strip_invalid_text_for_column()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wpdb/process_fields wpdb::process_fields()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wpdb/get_table_from_query wpdb::get_table_from_query()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wpdb/process_field_formats wpdb::process_field_formats()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wpdb/process_field_charsets wpdb::process_field_charsets()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wpdb/get_table_charset wpdb::get_table_charset()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wpdb/get_col_charset wpdb::get_col_charset()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wpdb/check_ascii wpdb::check_ascii()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wpdb/strip_invalid_text wpdb::strip_invalid_text()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wpdb/strip_invalid_text_from_query wpdb::strip_invalid_text_from_query()]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_query/parse_query WP_Query::parse_query()]

* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_users_list_table/single_row WP_Users_List_Table::single_row()]

* Introduce ‘childless’ parameter to get_terms().
* Introduce show_in_quick_edit parameter + filter for register_taxonomy(). 
* Introduce setExpectedDeprecated() and setExpectedIncorrectUsage() methods to WP_UnitTestCase.
* Introduce delete_site meta capability. 
* Introduce 'value_field' parameter to wp_dropdown_pages(). This parameter allows developers to choose the post field that will be used to fill in the ‘option’ attribute of the generated dropdown markup.
* Introduce $autoload parameter to update_option().

==== Deprecated ====

=== Functions ===

==== What's New ====
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_get_split_term wp_get_split_term()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_get_split_terms wp_get_split_terms()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_attachment_is wp_attachment_is()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/get_avatar_data get_avatar_data()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/get_avatar_url get_avatar_url()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_styles wp_styles()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_delete_file wp_delete_file()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_scripts wp_scripts()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_script_add_data wp_script_add_data()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_encode_emoji wp_encode_emoji()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_staticize_emoji wp_staticize_emoji()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/print_emoji_styles print_emoji_styles()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/has_header_image has_header_image()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/options_discussion_add_js options_discussion_add_js()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/maybe_convert_table_to_utf8mb4 maybe_convert_table_to_utf8mb4()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_install_maybe_enable_pretty_permalinks wp_install_maybe_enable_pretty_permalinks()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/customize_themes_print_templates customize_themes_print_templates()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_edit_attachments_query_vars wp_edit_attachments_query_vars()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_admin_canonical_url wp_admin_canonical_url()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_media_attach_action wp_media_attach_action()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_print_request_filesystem_credentials_modal wp_print_request_filesystem_credentials_modal()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_ajax_press_this_add_category wp_ajax_press_this_add_category()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_ajax_update_plugin wp_ajax_update_plugin()]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_ajax_press_this_save_post wp_ajax_press_this_save_post()]

==== Deprecated ====


=== Actions & Filters ===
* Added <tt>$expiration</tt> parameter to [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/pre_set_transient_{$transient} pre_set_transient_transient]
* Added <tt>$adjacent</tt> parameter to [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/{$adjacent}_post_link adjacent_post_link]

==== New Actions ====
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/split_shared_term split_shared_term]

==== New Filters ====
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/logout_redirect logout_redirect]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/get_object_terms get_object_terms]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/the_guid the_guid]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/pre_get_avatar pre_get_avatar]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/attachment_url_to_postid attachment_url_to_postid]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/media_embedded_in_content_allowed_types media_embedded_in_content_allowed_types]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/pre_get_avatar_data pre_get_avatar_data]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/get_avatar_data get_avatar_data]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/get_avatar_url get_avatar_url]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/emoji_url emoji_url]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/emoji_ext emoji_ext]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/widget_nav_menu_args widget_nav_menu_args]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/comment_form_submit_button comment_form_submit_button]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/comment_form_submit_field comment_form_submit_field]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/customize_refresh_nonces customize_refresh_nonces]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/customize_dynamic_setting_args customize_dynamic_setting_args]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/customize_dynamic_setting_class customize_dynamic_setting_class]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/customize_save_response customize_save_response]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/category_css_class category_css_class]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/pre_wp_prepare_themes_for_js pre_wp_prepare_themes_for_js]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/removable_query_args removable_query_args]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/dashboard_recent_posts_query_args dashboard_recent_posts_query_args]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/enable_press_this_media_discovery enable_press_this_media_discovery]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/press_this_data press_this_data]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/press_this_suggested_html press_this_suggested_html]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/press_this_save_redirect press_this_save_redirect]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/quick_edit_show_taxonomy quick_edit_show_taxonomy]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/press_this_redirect_in_parent press_this_redirect_in_parent]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/disable_months_dropdown disable_months_dropdown]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/pre_get_table_charset pre_get_table_charset]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/pre_get_col_charset pre_get_col_charset]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/get_avatar get_avatar]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/post_playlist post_playlist]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/post_gallery post_gallery]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/login_url login_url]
* Introduce [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/taxonomy_parent_dropdown_args taxonomy_parent_dropdown_args]
==== Deprecated ====

=== External Libraries ===

* Update jQuery UI to 1.11.4.
* Update jQuery to 1.11.2.
* Update hoverIntent to 1.8.1. 
* Upgrade to MediaElement 2.16.4

=== Miscellaneous ===

{{Versions}}

[[Category:Versions]]