{{#dotorgredirect: https://wordpress.org/support/wordpress-version/version-4-8-2/}}

{{Languages|
{{en|Version 4.8.2}}
{{ja|Version 4.8.2}}
}}
{{ Release
 | version = 4.8.2
 | date=19 Sep, 2017
 | status=was
}}

== Summary ==

From the [https://wordpress.org/news/2017/09/wordpress-4-8-2-security-and-maintenance-release/ WordPress 4.8.2 release post]: WordPress versions 4.8.1 and earlier are affected by nine security issues:
# <code>$wpdb->prepare()</code> can create unexpected and unsafe queries leading to potential SQL injection (SQLi). WordPress core is not directly vulnerable to this issue, but we’ve added hardening to prevent plugins and themes from accidentally causing a vulnerability. Reported by [https://hackerone.com/slavco Slavco].
# A cross-site scripting (XSS) vulnerability was discovered in the oEmbed discovery. Reported by xknown of the WordPress Security Team.
# A cross-site scripting (XSS) vulnerability was discovered in the visual editor. Reported by [https://twitter.com/brutelogic Rodolfo Assis (@brutelogic)] of Sucuri Security.
# A path traversal vulnerability was discovered in the file unzipping code. Reported by [https://hackerone.com/noxrnet Alex Chapman (noxrnet)].
# A cross-site scripting (XSS) vulnerability was discovered in the plugin editor. Reported by 陈瑞琦 (Chen Ruiqi).
# An open redirect was discovered on the user and term edit screens. Reported by [https://hackerone.com/ysx Yasin Soliman (ysx)].
# A path traversal vulnerability was discovered in the customizer. Reported by Weston Ruter of the WordPress Security Team.
# A cross-site scripting (XSS) vulnerability was discovered in template names. Reported by [https://hackerone.com/sikic Luka (sikic)].
# A cross-site scripting (XSS) vulnerability was discovered in the link modal. Reported by [https://hackerone.com/qasuar Anas Roubi (qasuar)].

In addition to the security issues above, WordPress 4.8.2 contains six maintenance fixes to the 4.8 release series.

Emoji
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/41584 #41584] - Upgrade Twemoji to 2.5.0
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/41852 #41852] - Fix UN flag test by returning the correct value.

I18N
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/41794 #41794] - Support numbers in locales during installation

Security
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/13377 #13377] - Add more sanitization in _cleanup_header_comment

Widgets
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/41596 #41596] - New Text Widget recognizes HTML but does not render it in the front end
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/41622 #41622] - Text widget can show DOMDocument::loadHTML() warnings in admin when is_legacy_widget method is called

== List of Files Revised ==

<pre>
wp-admin/about.php
wp-admin/edit-tag-form.php
wp-admin/includes/class-wp-plugins-list-table.php
wp-admin/includes/file.php
wp-admin/includes/template.php
wp-admin/install.php
wp-admin/js/widgets/text-widgets.js
wp-admin/js/widgets/text-widgets.min.js
wp-admin/plugin-editor.php
wp-admin/plugins.php
wp-admin/setup-config.php
wp-admin/theme-editor.php
wp-admin/user-edit.php
wp-includes/class-wp-customize-manager.php
wp-includes/embed.php
wp-includes/formatting.php
wp-includes/js/mce-view.js
wp-includes/js/mce-view.min.js
wp-includes/js/tinymce/plugins/wplink/plugin.js
wp-includes/js/tinymce/plugins/wplink/plugin.min.js
wp-includes/js/tinymce/wp-tinymce.js.gz
wp-includes/js/twemoji.js
wp-includes/js/twemoji.min.js
wp-includes/js/wp-emoji-loader.js
wp-includes/js/wp-emoji-loader.min.js
wp-includes/js/wp-emoji-release.min.js
wp-includes/js/wplink.js
wp-includes/js/wplink.min.js
wp-includes/script-loader.php
wp-includes/version.php
wp-includes/widgets/class-wp-widget-text.php
wp-includes/wp-db.php
</pre>