{{#dotorgredirect: https://wordpress.org/support/wordpress-version/version-4-7-5/}}
{{Languages|
{{en|Version 4.7.5}}
{{ja|Version 4.7.5}}
}}
{{ Release
  | version = 4.7.5
  | date=16 May 2017
  | status=was
}}

== Summary ==
 
From the [https://wordpress.org/news/2017/05/wordpress-4-7-5/ WordPress 4.7.5 release post]: WordPress versions 4.7.4 and earlier are affected by six security issues:

# Insufficient redirect validation in the HTTP class. Reported by [https://dk.linkedin.com/in/ronni-skansing-36143b65 Ronni Skansing].
# Improper handling of post meta data values in the XML-RPC API. Reported by [https://hackerone.com/jazzy2fives Sam Thomas].
# Lack of capability checks for post meta data in the XML-RPC API. Reported by [https://profiles.wordpress.org/vortfu Ben Bidner] of the WordPress Security Team.
# A Cross Site Request Forgery (CRSF)  vulnerability was discovered in the filesystem credentials dialog. Reported by [https://twitter.com/yorickkoster Yorick Koster].
# A cross-site scripting (XSS) vulnerability was discovered when attempting to upload very large files. Reported by [https://dk.linkedin.com/in/ronni-skansing-36143b65 Ronni Skansing].
# A cross-site scripting (XSS) vulnerability was discovered related to the Customizer. Reported by [https://profiles.wordpress.org/westonruter Weston Ruter] of the WordPress Security Team.

In addition to the security issues above, WordPress 4.7.5 contains four maintenance fixes to the 4.7 release series.

Administration
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/40056 #40056] - Shift-click to select a range of checkboxes isn't working anymore since 4.7.3 update

Build/Test Tools
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/40002 #40002] - Bump Akismet External - 4.7.x/4.8 Edition

REST API
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/39683 #39683] - REST API JS Client: Should enable connecting to multiple endpoints at the same time

Taxonomy
* [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/40496 #40496] - get_the_terms() doesn't respect register_taxonomy()'s 'orderby' => 'term_order'

== List of Files Revised ==
 
<pre>
wp-admin/includes/file.php
wp-admin/js/common.js
wp-admin/js/common.min.js
wp-admin/js/customize-controls.js
wp-admin/js/customize-controls.min.js
wp-admin/js/updates.js
wp-admin/js/updates.min.js
wp-admin/about.php
wp-admin/customize.php
wp-content/plugins/akismet/_inc/img/logo-full-2x.png
wp-content/plugins/akismet/_inc/akismet.css
wp-content/plugins/akismet/_inc/akismet.js
wp-content/plugins/akismet/akismet.php
wp-content/plugins/akismet/class.akismet.php
wp-content/plugins/akismet/readme.txt
wp-includes/js/plupload/handlers.js
wp-includes/js/plupload/handlers.min.js
wp-includes/js/wp-api.js
wp-includes/js/wp-api.min.js
wp-includes/class-http.php
wp-includes/class-wp-customize-manager.php
wp-includes/class-wp-xmlrpc-server.php
wp-includes/taxonomy.php
wp-includes/version.php
</pre>