[[Category:Vietnamese Codex]]{{Nháp}} 
__TOC__
Có những lúc bạn muốn chuyển WordPress đi nơi khác - có thể là thư mục khác nếu trên cùng máy chủ, hoặc một máy chủ hoàn toàn khác nếu bạn thay nhà cung cấp dịch vụ hosting. Trong những trường hợp đó, bạn không cần tính đến chuyện cài đặt lại WordPress. WordPress đủ thông minh để xử lý gọn ghẽ các tình huống tương tự. 

Đây là câu trả lời nhanh cho hầu hết những khả năng đó:
* Nếu cơ sở dữ liệu và địa chỉ blog giữ nguyên, bạn chỉ việc copy file và cơ sở dữ liệu của mình.
* Nếu tên cơ sở dữ liệu hoặc tên truy cập cơ sở dữ liệu thay đổi, bạn sửa lại file wp-config.php với thông tin thích hợp.
* Nếu muốn thực hiện "công cuộc chuyển nhà thử nghiệm", bạn có thể tạm thời thay đổi hai giá trị "siteurl" và "home" trong bảng "wp_options" (thông qua phpMyAdmin hoặc ứng dụng tương đương".<br />Nếu đã từng tùy biến địa chỉ đẹp (permalink), bạn cần vô hiệu hóa .htaccess và cấu hình lại các địa chỉ này khi blog đi vào hoạt động.

==Chuyển WordPress trong phạm vi một máy chủ==

Chuyển file mã nguồn WordPress từ khu vực này đến khu vực khác trên cùng máy chủ, đồng thời đổi địa chỉ blog, cần một số lưu ý.

Đây là hướng dẫn từng bước:

# Tạo địa chỉ mới bằng một trong hai cách sau:
## Nếu bạn định chuyển [[Các file mã nguồn WordPress|các file mã nguồn WordPress]] tới thư mục mới, hãy tạo thư mục mới đó.
## Nếu bạn định chuyển WordPress tới thư mục gốc, hãy chắc chắn [[Các file mã nguồn WordPress|index.php]], [[Thuật ngữ#.htaccess|.htaccess]], và các file sẽ copy đã được sao lưu cẩn thận. 
# Đăng nhập vào blog của bạn
# Chuyển tới [[Administration Panels|Administration]] > [[Administration_Panels#Options_-_Configuration_Settings|Settings]] > [[Settings_General_SubPanel|General]].
# Điền vào ô '''WordPress address (URI):''' địa chỉ chứa các file mã nguồn WordPress.
# Điền vào ô '''Blog address (URI):''' địa chỉ blog mới, thường là giống địa chỉ chứa các file mã nguồn WordPress.
# Bấm chọn '''Update Options'''.
# (Đừng cố xem blog của bạn vội!)
# 'Nếu đang dùng 'WordPress 2.0:'' Xóa thư mục ''wp-content/cache''.
# Chuyển các file mã nguồn WordPress tới địa chỉ mới. Nó bao gồm các file bạn có thể tìm thấy ở thư mục ban đầu, như  <tt><nowiki> http://example.com/wordpress</nowiki></tt>, và các thư mục con.
# Nếu bạn đang sử dụng [[Sử dụng Địa chỉ đẹp|Địa chỉ đẹp]], chuyển tới [[Administration Panels|Administration]] > [[Administration_Panels#Options_-_Configuration_Settings|Settings]] > [[Settings_Permalinks_SubPanel|Permalinks]] và cập nhật cấu trúc địa chỉ đẹp mới trong file [[Thuật ngữ#.htaccess|.htaccess]]. Thường file này nằm cùng thư mục với file <tt>index.php</tt> chính.
# Nếu bị lỗi không hiển thị hình ảnh trong bài viết, bạn cần thay đổi thủ công đường dẫn tới tất cả các ảnh trong cơ sở dữ liệu SQL. Để biết thêm chi tiết, bạn có thể đọc bài viết [http://www.tamba2.org.uk/wordpress/move3 Hướng dẫn của Tamba: "Chuyển WordPress trong máy tính của bạn"].

Chú ý quan trọng: Bạn cần thay đổi các địa chỉ trước khi tiến hành quá trình di chuyển file.

Suppose you accidentally moved the files before you changed the URIs. Suppose the files were originally in /path/to/old/ and you moved them to /path/to/new before changing the URIs. The way to fix this would be to make /path/to/old/ a symlink (for Windows users, "symlink" is equivalent to "shortcut") to /path/to/new/, i.e.
<pre>ln -s /path/to/new /path/to/old</pre>
and then follow the steps [[Moving WordPress#Moving WordPress Within Your Site | above]] as normal. Afterwards delete the symlink if you want.

You're done.  Test your site to make sure that it works right.  If the change involves a new address for your blog, make sure you let people know the new address, and consider adding some redirection instructions in your <tt>.htaccess</tt> file to guide visitors to the new location.

[[Changing The Site URL]] also provides the details of this process!

== Giving WordPress its Own Directory While Leaving the WordPress Index File in the Root Directory==
Please see this article, [[Giving_WordPress_Its_Own_Directory|Giving WordPress Its Own Directory]], for detailed instructions.

==Moving WordPress to a New Server==

If you are moving WordPress from one server to another, begin by backing up your data. This includes backing up your WordPress database as well as all the core files, images, plugins, and 
other files on your site. See [[WordPress Backups]] and [[Backing Up Your Database]] for more details. 

*Note: If you are changing to a new server but same domain, all you need to do is edit wp-config.php and upload everything as it is to your new server.

'''If You Don't Care If Your Old Blog Works'''

#Download a copy of the main wordpress files from your OLD blog to your hard drive and edit wp-config.php to suit the new server.
#Go back to your OLD blog and go to options and change the url (both of them) to that of your new site.
#Again, download your database (but keep the old one just in case), upload this new database and the copy of the wordpress core files with the edited wp-config.php to your new server. Thats it!

'''If You Want Your Old Blog To Still Work'''

Caution: Make sure you have a backup of your old blog's WordPress database before proceeding!

''Part A - Activating Your New Blog''
#Download your entire WordPress installation to your hard drive.  Name the folder appropriately to indicate that this is your OLD blog's installation.
#Go back to your OLD blog and go to options and change the url (both of them) to that of your new site.
#Again, download your entire WordPress installation to your hard drive.  Name the folder appropriately to indicate that this is your NEW blog's installation.
#Download your database once again (but keep the old one).  Upload this database to your new server.  It will be easiest if you use the same database name and you create a user with the same login credentials on your new server as on your old server.
#If you used a different database name and/or user (see previous step), edit wp-config.php in your NEW blog's installation folder appropriately.
#Upload the NEW blog's installation folder to your new site.  Presto, your NEW blog should be working!

''Part B - Restoring Your Old Blog''
#On the original server, delete your OLD blog's database (remember, you should have a copy on your local computer that you made at the very beginning).
#Upload your OLD blog's installation folder to your original server, overwriting the files that are currently there (you may also delete the installation folder on the server and simply re-upload the OLD blog's files).
#Upload your OLD blog's database from your local computer to the server.  That should do it!


Another procedure for making copies of posts, comments, pages, categories and custom field (post status, data, permalinks, ping status...) easy to follow:
#Install a new Wordpress blog
#Go on old blog Admin panel. Here, in  Manage > Export select "all" in menu Restrict Author.
#Click on Download Export File
#In new blog go on Manage > Import, choose Wordpress item.
#In the page that will be shown, select the file just exported. Click on Upload file and Import
#It will appear a page. In Assign Authors, assign the author to users that already exist or create new ones.
#Click on Submit
#At the end, click on Have fun

Note: using this method if there are some articles in new blog (like hello world, info page...), these will not be erased. Articles are only added. Using the former procedure the article in new blog will be deleted.

==Moving WordPress to a New Server with Fantastico==

Some webhosts use a service called [http://netenberg.com/fantastico.php Fantastico], which can install a vanilla WordPress web with just a few clicks. You can transfer your blog to one of these webs, but the steps are slightly different.

Begin by backing up your data. This includes backing up your WordPress database as well as all the core files, images, plugins, and 
other files on your site. See [[WordPress Backups]] and [[Backing Up Your Database]] for more details. 

'''Make a copy of your database. You will need to edit the <code>.sql</code> file, and in case of errors, it is important that you work on a copy.'''

Begin the process of working from copies of your backups.

#'''If''' you have changed domain, edit the backed up database file to reflect this. A simple way to do this is:
## Using a [[Glossary#Text editor|text editor]], open a '''copy''' of the <code>.sql</code> database file.
## Using the search and replace function, find all instances of the blog's old [[Glossary#URL|URL]] and replace it with the new URL.
## Repeat the process with your old email address. (For example, replacing <tt>someone@example.com</tt> with <tt>someone@tutorial.com</tt>)
## Save your changes.
#Upload your plugins and themes from your old site to the new one.
#Drop (delete) the database tables of the pre-installed Fantastico web.
#[[Restoring Your Database From Backup|Restore the database]].

When you are ready to check your site, make sure to [[I Make Changes and Nothing Happens|clear your cache]] and cookies so you will see the changes in your web browser.

[[Category:Getting Started]]
[[Category:Advanced Topics]]
[[Category:Troubleshooting]]
[[Category:Installation]]

== Additional Information ==
* [http://www.tamba2.org.uk/wordpress/ Podz' WordPress Guides]
* [http://www.mydigitallife.info/2007/10/01/how-to-move-wordpress-blog-to-new-domain-or-location/ How to move WordPress to a new domain or location]
* [http://www.velvetblues.com/web-development-blog/how-to-move-a-wordpress-blog-or-website/ How to move a WordPress Blog or Website]
* [http://www.prelovac.com/vladimir/how-to-move-wordpress-site-to-another-server-with-zero-downtime How to move WordPress site to another server with zero downtime]
*[http://www.problogger.net/archives/2009/01/03/how-to-move-from-wordpresscom-to-wordpressorg/ Moving a blog from wordpress.com to self-hosted blog]

* Trasferire Wordpress su un altro server [http://www.nemoprincess.it/wordpress/diario-di-bordo/trasferire-wordpress-su-un-nuovo-server.html Come trasferire Wordpress su un altro server]
* Italian version of this article - [http://www.valent-blog.eu/2007/09/14/trasferire-wordpress/ Versione italiana dell'articolo] 
* German version of this article - [http://blogs-optimieren.de/2008/01/13/wordpress-korrekt-umziehen/]

{{Copyedit}}