__NOTOC__
[[#0|0]]  [[#A|A]]  [[#B|B]]  [[#C|C]]  [[#D|D]]  [[#E|E]]  [[#F|F]]  [[#G|G]]  [[#H|H]]  [[#I|I]]  [[#J|J]]  [[#K|K]]  [[#L|L]]  [[#M|M]]  [[#N|N]]  [[#O|O]]  [[#P|P]]  [[#Q|Q]]  [[#R|R]]  [[#S|S]]  [[#T|T]]  [[#U|U]]  [[#V|V]]  [[#W|W]]  [[#X|X]]  [[#Y|Y]]  [[#Z|Z]]

====0====
*[http://ottodestruct.com/blog/2006/04/28/30boxes-widget/ 30Boxes] - display events on your 30Boxes Calendar.  Requires PHP 5.
====A====
*[http://www.utheguru.com/yahoo-sidebar-link-badge-widget-for-wordpress/ A Yahoo SiteExplorer Widget] - Yahoo Site Explorer Badge widgetized for wordpress - great free sidebar tool shows accurate inlinks to your blog. See demo at [http://provigil.utheguru.com Yahoo Badge Widget Demo]
*[http://www.samdevol.com/about-me-widget-for-wordpress/ About Me Widget] - Add an "about me" with image/blurb/links to your sidebar
*[http://www.digitalspaghetti.me.uk/2006/09/17/the-accessibility-widget-is-back/ Accessibility Widget] - allow visitors to text size and stylesheet
*[http://kpumuk.info/wordpress/wordpress-widgets-ad-rotator/ Ad Rotator] - enter, then rotate, multiple HTML entries separate by <nowiki><!--more--></nowiki>
* [http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/add-to-any/ AddToAny Share Buttons Widget] - Lets readers share your blog's content using any service, such as Facebook, Twitter, Google+, Pinterest, WordPress, Reddit, StumbleUpon, and many more.
* [http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/add-to-any-subscribe/ AddToAny Subscribe Widget] - Lets readers subscribe to your blog using any feed reader, such as Google Reader, My Yahoo!, Netvibes, Pageflakes, and all the rest. The Subscribe button comes with a drop-down menu that appears on rollover.
*[http://foolip.org/blog/2007/05/06/addthis-sidebar-widget/ AddThis Sidebar Wiget] - AddThis feed subscription and social bookmarking buttons
*[http://www.mikesmullin.com/2006/04/01/adsense-widget-wordpress-sidebar/ Adsense Widget for WordPress] - controls color, size, h2 of adsense ad
*[http://selenagomez.com.pl/inne/twitter-profile-widget/ Advanced Twitter Profile Widget] - Adds a sidebar widget to display Twitter updates (using the Javascript). You can set number of messages, color and other features.
*[http://webdesign.anmari.com/web-tools/plugins-and-widgets/upcoming-events-widget/ AmR Upcoming Events] - very configurable, handles multiple ical feeds
*[http://www.sosuechtig.de/wordpress-widgets/ Apple Trailer] - show random movie trailers from apple.com with movie poster
*[http://www.junyent.org/blog/arxius/2006/05/20/around-this-date-in-the-past-wordpress-widget/ Around This Date In The Past] - shows '''x''' years ago entries/posts
*[http://dirkie.nu/2006/05/01/associative-dictionary-widget/ Associative Dictionary] - create and show personal dictionary
*[http://jiglu.com/ Auto Tag Widget] - intelligently tag and link your blog, automatically.
*[http://blog.dannyevarts.net/2006/06/28/avfuel-my-first-useful-wordpress-widget/ AvFuel] - allows entry and display of latest AV fuel prices

====B====
*[http://www.viper007bond.com/wordpress-plugins/battlefield-2-stats/ Battlefield 2 Stats] - outputs your Battlefield 2 profile statistics
*[http://www.berriart.com/berri-youtube-gallery/ Berri YouTube Gallery] - gives you possibility to show a YouTube video gallery with customized appearance on your sidebar and all you need is to write the video URLs in the widget control panel. There is no need to register or to get YouTube API.
*[http://www.ozpolitics.info/blog/wordpress-plugins/#comments BDP Comments] -- more options than the built in "recent comments" widget
*[http://www.ozpolitics.info/blog/wordpress-plugins/#links BDP List Widget] is a general purpose sidebar widget for a list of user-defined text and links. It could be used to create an index or directory for your blog. Up to 9 different lists can be created. Lists must have less than 15 elements.
*[http://www.ozpolitics.info/blog/2005/03/28/aggregated-blog-feeds/ BDP RSS Aggregator] -- widgetized for WordPress version 2.2
*[http://www.ozpolitics.info/blog/wordpress-plugins/#setup BDP Setup] -- a list of all the active plugins on the sidebar
*[http://www.bidvertiser.com/bdv/BidVertiser/bdv_plugins.dbm BidVertiser] - displays [http://www.bidvertiser.com/ BidVertiser] text ads
*[http://www.bitty.com/ Bitty Browser] - Bitty is the little browser that goes on any Web page, like Picture-in-Picture for the Web. Add navigable Web content by URL, RSS feeds, Podcasts, OPML files, or use it with services like Flickr, del.icio.us, Digg, Bloglines, Google, etc.
*[http://www.rafaeldohms.com.br/2006/09/01/wp-widget-blogblogscombr-favorites/en/ BlogBlogs.com.br Favorites] - add a list of ths blogs you added as favorites to you sidebar
*[http://www.minded.ch/bloggrrrcom-sidebar-widget/ Bloggrrr.com] - allows visitors to rate your site with the [http://www.bloggrrr.com/ bloggrrr.com] service
*[http://oliphantparts.org/bookmarks_displayer_widget.zip Bookmarks Display Widget] - Allows users to modify how the bookmark links are displayed in the sidebar.  You can change the title, number of bookmarks displayed, sort order and sortby field.
*[http://www.arnoldbreukhoven.nl/tag/widgets Breukie's Archive Widget]  
*[http://www.arnoldbreukhoven.nl/tag/widgets Breukie's Calendar Widget]
*[http://www.arnoldbreukhoven.nl/tag/widgets Breukie's Category Widget]
*[http://www.arnoldbreukhoven.nl/tag/widgets Breukie's Links Widget]
*[http://www.arnoldbreukhoven.nl/tag/widgets Breukie's Pages Widget]
*[http://www.4null4.de/142/sidebar-widget-brians-latest-comments/ Brians Latest Comments] - widgetized and configurable [http://meidell.dk/archives/2005/11/09/brians-latest-comments-155/ Brians Latest Comments Plugin]
*[http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/buddypress-activity-tags/ BuddyPress Activity Tags] - Adds a widget that displays a tag cloud with tags from new blog posts in BuddyPress Activity tab.

====C====
*[http://www.chipsquips.com/?p=344 Cached Widget] - template widget for caching widget content
*[http://leekelleher.com/wordpress/plugins/category-cloud-widget/ Category Cloud Widget] - Adds a sidebar widget to display the categories as a tag cloud.
*[http://tech.windsofstorm.net/wordpress/category-widget/ Category Replacement] - enhance version of automattic version
*[http://charts.kekova.ca/widgets/wp/charts_kekova.zip Charts @ kekova.ca] - display charts in sidebar
*[http://www.nellemann.nu/2007/01/15/wordpress-sidebar-widget-chartdk-counter-v-10/ Charts @ chart.dk] - show chart.dk counter in sidebar
*[http://chitika.com/support/index.php?_m=downloads&_a=viewdownload&downloaditemid=7&nav=0,1 Chitika eMiniMalls] - register then make money with display of [http://chitika.com/support/index.php?_m=knowledgebase&_a=viewarticle&kbarticleid=2&nav=0 Chitika eMimiMall] 
*[http://blog.claimid.com/2006/04/claimid-wordpress-widget/ claimID] - list recent claimID links
*[http://ottodestruct.com/blog/2006/04/27/coastr-widget/ Coastr] - display your list of favorite beers and pubs from [http://coastr.com/ coastr.com]
*[http://www.23corner.com/files/cocomment.phps coComment widget] - display coComments conversations
*[http://nothingoutoftheordinary.com/2007/05/24/compete-wordpress-widget/ Compete] - Adds Compete stats to the sidebar
*[http://www.linksback.org/wordpress/wordpress-plugins/wpcontact-wordpress-plugin/ Contact] - Adds a contact form to the sidebar
*[http://oddy.net/wordpress/wp-filez/coppermine_widget.zip Coppermine] - display random image from Coppermine
*[http://is-here.com/projects/wordpress/pages Custom Pages] - control Pages sort order, sort field, and depth of nesting

====D====
*[https://wordpress.org/plugins/daikos-text-widget/ Daiko's Text Widget] - Adds a sidebar widget to display text, includes php-code capability. Includes conditional tag testing to specify where to display. The widget is basically an extension of the Execphp widget by Otto at http://ottodestruct.com. Conditional Tags supported.
*[https://wordpress.org/plugins/daikos-video-widget/ Daiko's Video Widget] - Display random videos from MySpace, YouTube and Google Video in your sidebar(s). Conditional Tags supported.
*[https://wordpress.org/plugins/daikos-youtube-widget/ Daiko's YouTube Widget] - Display a pre-defined number of YouTube videos as thumbnail images and play them in a pop-up ThickBox window or a VideoPlayer Widget (included and integrated). Conditional Tags supported.
*[http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/delicious-cached/ del.icio.us cached++] - Create a list of the latest bookmarks on a del.icio.us account, from its RSS feed
*[http://nothingoutoftheordinary.com/2007/05/31/wordpress-digg-widget/ Digg] - Displays your latest dugg items
*[http://stickiwidgets.com/widgets/digitally-imported-wordpress-sidebar-widget/ Digitally Imported] - display [http://www.di.fm/ Digitally Imported di.fm] channels
*[http://patrick.bloggles.info/wpwidgets/ Doogate Search] - search your site with Doogate.com
*[http://tech.windsofstorm.net/wordpress/drop-archive-widget/ Dropdown Archives] - drop-down access to archives
*[http://tech.windsofstorm.net/wordpress/drop-links-widget/ Dropdown Links] - drop-down access to links

====E====
*[http://ensiklonesia.net/blog/2006/04/ensiklonesia-wordpress-widget/ Ensiklonesia] - display information about Indonesia
*[http://blog.cvjm-nuernberg.de/intern/evangelische-termine-widget/ Evangelische Termine Widget] - shows events of http://www.evangelische-termine.de
*[http://wpcal.firetree.net EventCalendar3] - ajax calendar & upcoming event list
*[http://ottodestruct.com/blog/2006/04/09/fun-with-widgets/ ExecPHP ] - text widget that allows PHP code to be executed (WordPress 2.0-2.3.3)

====F====
*[http://blog.finke.ws/?p=11 Feedburner] - subscribe to blog via Feedburner 
*[http://www.bencoleman.co.uk/flickr-widget-plugin-for-your-wordpress-sidebar/ Flickr Badge Widget] - display your flickr photos in the sidebar
*[http://blog.donncha.net/flickr-widget/ Flickr Widget] - same widget that www.wordpress.com uses
*[http://patrick.bloggles.info/ flickr RSS Widgets] - display flickr Photos on sidebar
*[http://tantannoodles.com/toolkit/photo-album/ Flickr Photo Album] - display Flickr album sets
*[http://simplepilgrimage.org/files/flickrrss_widget.zip FlickerRSS] - display Flickr photos; requires [http://eightface.com/wordpress/flickrrss/ flickrRSS Plugin]
*[http://www.headzoo.com/downloads Flickr Spinnr] - display Flickr photos in rotating cube 
*[http://www.joshgerdes.com/blog/projects/flickr-tag-cloud-widget/ Flickr Tag Cloud Widget] - display a link tag cloud from your Flickr account
*[http://www.mealldubh.org/index.php/software/fold_page_menus_widget Folded Pages] - collapsible Pages list
*[http://www.dragonflyeye.net/blog/2006/06/10/folding-categories-list-widget/ Folding Categories List] - collapsible categories list
*[http://www.jason.mock.ws/wordpress/2007/02/15/fortune-widget-03 Fortune Widget] - Fortune widget (Random Quotes), with some simple customizations and easy install.
*[http://cherm06.blogspot.com/2006/04/wordpress-widget.html FPLogin] - admin login based on [http://www.ioerror.us/2005/04/14/wordpress-sidebar-login-form-hack/ Michael Hampton's hack]
*[http://www.unsignedbandweb.com/files/wp_free-music.zip Free Music Widget] - Display music from the unsigned band web on your blog
*[http://beconfused.com/blog/2006/04/14/an-enhanced-recent-comments-widget-for-wordpress-call-fresh-comments/ Fresh Comments] - display recently approved comments with configuration panel to control how recent comments are displayed.
*[http://singpolyma-tech.blogspot.com/2006/03/freshtags-for-wordpress.html FreshTags for WordPress]
*[http://www.semiologic.com/software/recent-comments/ Fuzzy Recent Comments] - displays recent comments
*[http://www.semiologic.com/software/recent-links/ Fuzzy Recent Links] - displays recent links
*[http://www.semiologic.com/software/recent-posts/ Fuzzy Recent Posts] - displays recent posts
*[http://www.semiologic.com/software/recent-updates/ Fuzzy Recent Updates] - displays recently update posts, comments, links

====G====
*[http://www.neotrinity.at/projects/ GeneralStats] - Counts the number of users, categories, posts, comments, pages, links, tags, link-categories, words in posts, words in comments and words in pages.
*[http://www.aquinashub.co.uk/projects/wordpress-plugins/geourlsb/ GeoURL Sidebar] - displays site [http://geourl.org/ GeoURL]
*[http://tech.windsofstorm.net/wordpress/getweather-widget/ GetWeather] - works alongside the [http://dev.wp-plugins.org/wiki/GetWeather GetWeather plugin by Jeff Minard]
*[http://gabblywidgets.com/4 Gabbly Chat]- let users chat using [http://gabbly.com/ Gabbly Chat] box
*[http://blog.jodies.de/archiv/2004/11/13/recent-comments/ Get Recent Comments] - display excerpts of the most recent comments and/or trackbacks with customizable formatting
*[http://www.elimchristianfellowship.net/community/church-geeks/ GoodSearch Wordpress Widget] - Add a search form for [http://www.goodsearch.com/ GoodSearch] with a preset charity id
*[http://wordpress.org/plugins/google-maps-widget/ Google Maps Widget] - displays a single-image super-fast loading Google map in a widget. A larger map with all the usual features is available on click in a lightbox
*[http://wp-plugins.net/plugin/adsense Google AdSense widget] - color, size and h2 title of your AdSense widget are all fully customizable from within the WordPress Presentations tab
*[http://ottodestruct.com/blog/2006/04/09/fun-with-widgets/ Google AdSense ] - specifically designed to insert Google Ads in the sidebars
*[http://ottodestruct.com/blog/2006/04/18/google-calendar-widget/ Google Calendar] - shows entries from your Google Calendar
*[http://www.waxbrush.com/widgets/google-mapsearch-widget/ Google MapSearch] - AJAX Google Map Search embedded in the sidebar.
*[http://nothingoutoftheordinary.com/2007/05/26/wordpress-google-reader-widget/ Google Reader] - Lists latest Google Reader shared posts
*[http://www.waxbrush.com/widgets/google-videosearch-widget/ Google VideoSearch] - AJAX Google Video Search embedded in the sidebar.

====H====
*[http://blog.23corner.com/2006/04/01/1401/ HEMiDEMi] - bookmarks widget

====I====
*[http://sturzhelmkinder.de/2006/05/10/ich-lese-gerade/ I Read Straight] - show link to Amazon book read
*[http://www.myjavaserver.com/~debuchakrabarty/iframe.txt IFrame Widget] - adds an IFrame widget to display any other webpage
*[http://www.mutube.com/wordpress/im-online/ IM Online] - display your  AOL, MSN, Yahoo!, Jabber (inc. Google Talk) and ICQ online status 
*[http://www.artux.com.ar/contenido/nueva-version-del-plugin-who-link-here-para-mostrar-los-enlaces-entrantes/ Incoming Links - Who Link Here] - Shows incoming links on your sidebar. Using for it the Technorati API or Google Blog Search.
*[http://www.mutube.com/wordpress/infocon-widget/ Infocon] - display InfoCon internet stability feed
*[http://www.tbble.net/wp/irrepressible.phps Irrepressible ] - widget to display data from http://irrepressible.info/
*[http://www.piepalace.ca/blog/projects/irrepressiblefragment/ Irrepressible.Fragment] - display fragments of censored infromation from Amnesty International.

====J====
*[http://www.jangl.com/CorpWeb/WidgetInfo.aspx Jangl] - Talk with the readers of your Blog without giving out your phone number
*[http://justaddwater.dk/wordpress-plugins/ JAW Duplicate Widgets] - allows you to duplicate widgets in the same or different sidebar
*[http://justaddwater.dk/wordpress-plugins/ JAW Popular Post] - displays data from Alex King's [http://www.alexking.org/blog/2005/05/23/popularity-contest/ Popularity Contest plugin]
*[http://sojoe.info/2006/04/09/joes-quotes-widget.html Joe's Quotes Widget] -  allows you to have a quote and a picture of the character who is quoted.
*[http://sojoe.info/2006/04/08/joes-subscription-widget.html Joe's Subscription Widget] - displays blog subscription options
*[http://www.scholven.com/?p=18 jsCharts 1.0] - display Last.fm Charts
*[http://www.scholven.com/?p=19 jsScrobbler 1.0] - displays the Last.fm Track played most recently (based on modified version of F.Krieners Scrobbler Plugin)

====K====
*[http://www.chipsquips.com/?p=306 keywords-tagcloud] - displays a tag cloud using keywords from the jeromes-keywords plugin
*[http://www.blog.mediaprojekte.de/cms-systeme/wordpress-plugins/wordpress-widget-king-calendar/ King Calendar] - helps display up to 10 calendar widgets. Also supports the [http://blog.firetree.net/2005/07/18/eventcalendar-30/ EventsCalendar plugin]. 
*[http://www.blog.mediaprojekte.de/cms-systeme/wordpress/wordpress-widget-king-categories/ King Categories] - acts a front-end to the abilities of the [[Template_Tags/list_cats|list_cats]] function
*[http://www.blog.mediaprojekte.de/cms-systeme/wordpress-plugins/wordpress-widget-king-links/ King Links] - various options for controlling and displaying Links.
*[http://www.blog.mediaprojekte.de/cms-systeme/wordpress-plugins/wordpress-widget-king-login/ King Login] - handles WordPress login with various options
*[http://www.blog.mediaprojekte.de/cms-systeme/wordpress-plugins/wordpress-widget-king-search/ King Search] - advanced search
*[http://www.blog.mediaprojekte.de/cms-systeme/wordpress-plugins/wordpress-widget-king-text/ King Text] - supports php or HTML in a widget
*[http://www.blog.mediaprojekte.de/cms-systeme/wordpress-plugins/king-widget-framework/ King Widget Framework] - not really a widget but rather a framework for working with widgets

====L====
*[http://collegegeek.org/?p=34 Last.fm] - last.fm music charts as a graphic in your sidebar
*[http://nothingoutoftheordinary.com/2007/05/25/wordpress-lastfm-widget-widget/ Last.fm] Adds the new version of the chart. Customizable color and type.
*[http://brimosoft.nl/lazyest/gallery/ Lazyest Gallery Thumbs Slideshow] - randomly rotates Lazyest Gallery thumbnail images]
*[http://dragonflyeye.net/leftyblogs/ The LeftyBlogs Widget] - Add a local [http://leftyblogs.com/ LeftyBlogs.com] blogroll widget to your sidebar
*[http://www.martintod.org.uk/blog/?p=54 Lib Dem Buttons] - add UK Lib Dem campaign buttons
*[http://moho.optera.net/projects/wordpress/linkblock/ LinkBlock Widget] - display links in customizable 'blocks'.
*[http://www.archgfx.net/blog/index.php/2006/geek/wpw-linkslist Links List] - simple replacement for links widget
*[http://www.mikesmullin.com/2006/06/21/list-authors-widget/ List Authors] - display a list of authors linking to the authors.php page
*[http://peter5000.rshost.de/blog/?p=4 Live Search] - Live search engine without refresh
*[http://www.lovelybooks.de/tools.html Lovelybooks] - Share your bookshelf

====M====
*[http://worldtechlogic.com/2006/06/24/goodstorm-to-offer-e-commerce-widget-with-50-revenue-split-for-bloggers/ MeCommerce] - displays [http://mecommerce.goodstorm.com/ MeCommerce] product listings
*[http://patrick.bloggles.info/wpwidgets/ Meebo Embed Widget] - embed your meebo widgets on the sidebar
*[http://blog.miloco.com/moviewidget/ MovieWidget] - sidebar widget to randomly display a thumbnail from your DVD collection
*[http://blog.twkang.net/2006/04/19/msnstatus-widget/ MSNStatus] - shows MSN Messenger status based on [http://crazylittleworld.com/plugins/w2mstatus/ W2MStatus]
*[http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/multisite-global-search/ Multisite Global Search] - Adds the ability to search through blogs into your WordPress Multisite installation.
*[http://www.topofcool.com/?p=169 My Bloglines Widget] - display Bloglines subscriptions
*[http://gozenn.com/widgets/mybloglog-community-widget/ MyBlogLog Community Widget] - Show the communities you are in at MyBlogLog
*[http://gozenn.com/widgets/mybloglog-widget/ MyBlogLog Widget] - displays the MyBlogLog Recent Readers Widget (with all options)
*[http://www.guysie.nl/archives/24 myStatus] - displays customized status information and requires the [http://eightface.com/code/wp-mystatus/ myStatus plugin]
*[http://anwanore.com/projects/mytwitter MyTwitter] - displays a user's Twitter updates (tweets)
*[http://guff.szub.net/2006/04/06/my-widget-example-wordpress-widget/ My Widget] - Display text or other information about yourself.  The source code is available and information about creating widgets.

====N====
*[http://ongoingprocess.net/projects/netflixwidget/ Netflix Widget] - calls [http://www.albertbanks.com/wordpress-netflix-plugin/ Albert Banks Netflix plugin] to display information from your Netflix account
*[http://robm.me.uk/projects/plugins/wordpress/now-reading/ Now Reading] scroll down on that page to see the widget version

====O====
*[http://patrick.bloggles.info/2006/09/30/odeo-plugin/ Odeo Podcast Plugin] Embed Odeo Podcast on wordpress blog.
*[http://www.chipsquips.com/?p=332 OPML Blogroll] - Blogroll from a hosted OPML file

====P====
*[http://www.damagedgoods.it/wp-plugins/parent-pages/ Parent Pages] - Lists a subpage's parent pages
*[http://patrick.bloggles.info/ Paypal Donate Widget] - Display donate form in your sidebar
*[http://www.phsoftware.de/index.php/content/view/45/51/ phJoomla Latest Entries] - show your Frontpage Joomla Articles or your latest created/changed Articles.
*[http://www.phsoftware.de/index.php/content/view/44/51/ phphp Latest Entries v1.0] - shows you the latest phpbb Forum entries
*[http://www.phsoftware.de/index.php/content/view/47/51/ phtechnorati Jscript] - show Technorati Jscript 
*[http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/php-code-widget/ PHP Code Widget] - text widget that allows PHP code to be executed (WordPress 2.5 and up)
*[http://vaguedream.com/wordpress-themes/ Picasa Web Albums] - Add thumbnails of your Picasa Web Albums to your sidebar.
*[http://www.saltando.net/2006/04/03/jugando-con-los-widgets/ Plugins used Plugin - Widget] - List all your activated plugins in your sidebar (based on "Plugins used Plugin" from Andrew Chen)
*[http://www.pmsbyrss.com/blog/2006/04/24/wp-widget-pmsbyrss/ PMSbyRSS (OUTLOOK)] - display list of your  weekly [OUTLOOK]
*[http://joostmarkerink.nl/2010/postlist_widget/ Post List Widget] - displays current posts and scrolls to a post smoothly
*[http://www.postrank.com/publishers/wordpress PostRank Top Posts Widget] - Show your best posts based on metrics from [http://www.postrank.com PostRank]

====Q====
*[http://www.mutube.com/wordpress/quick-sms/ Quick SMS] - allow visitors to send SMS messages to your mobile device

====R====
*[http://fatblue.homelinux.org/category/wordpress-widgets/ Random Fortune] - displays a random fortune from the fortune database
*[http://robm.me.uk/projects/plugins/wordpress/random-simplegal-image/ Random Simplegal Image] - displays a random image from your [http://robm.me.uk/projects/simplegal/SimpleGal install] anywhere on your page
*[http://blog.rawsugar.com/blog/?p=40 RawSugar] - display [http://www.rawsugar.com RawSugar] feed of blog tags
*[http://patrick.bloggles.info/2006/04/23/get-your-stock-quotes-widgets/ RevenuePilot] - generate [http://www.revenuepilot.com/ RevenuePilot] ads
*[http://shubhhub.blogspot.com/2007/01/reddit-widget.html Reddit Widget]  Reddit Posts
*[http://nothingoutoftheordinary.com/2007/06/01/wordpress-reddit-widget/ Reddit] - Displays your liked stories (on reddit.com)
*[http://www.sargant.com/blog/wordpress-plugins/ RS Event] - A really easy way of listing upcoming events. Just attach the time and date to the event's post using the editor sidebar.
*[http://rudd-o.com/projects/wordspew/ Rudd-O's Wordspew] - shoutbox based on Andrew Sutherland's Jalenack Wordspew
*[http://dirkie.nu/wordpress-widgets/run-for-cover/ Run For Cover] - based on username, retreives the cds you listened to recently from Last.fm, finds the cover images at Amazon and displays the CD covers.
*[http://www.ryboe.com/2007/01/11/ryboe-tag-cloud-plugin-for-wordpress.html Ryboe Tag Cloud] - quickly place a tag cloud in your sidebar using category tags

====S====
*[http://leflo.de/projekte/wordpress/scrobbler/ Scrobbler] - Displays various Audioscrobbler / Last.fm information (Recent Music, Top Albums, ...) in an AJAXified Widget, autoreloading itself, to keep your visitors informed (check the link to see an example).
*[http://robm.me.uk/projects/plugins/wordpress/scrobbles/ Scrobbles] - retreive and display Audioscrobbler data where you wish.  
*[http://navyroad.com/2007/10/08/search-widget-with-title/ Search Widget with Title] - This search widget comes with an optional '''h3''' widget title and allows you to control the search button text, as well as giving you more control over styling.
*[http://irgeek.net/projects/show-cocomments/ Show coComments] - display unordered list of comments on the coComment service
*[http://blue-anvil.com/archives/a-wordpress-login-widget-sidebar-login-widget-v10 Sidebar Login] - allows login then redirect to point user logged in from.
*[http://katesgasis.com/download-page/ Sideblog] - display 1 or 2 sentences (asides) of posts
*[http://tdjc.be/2006/08/31/simple-counter-for-wp-shortstat/ Simple Counter] - A simple stat counter.  Requires [http://blog.happyarts.de/wp-shortstat/ WP-ShortStat] 
*[http://mika.kfib.org/wordpress/2006/04/07/widget-for-simple-recent-comments/ Simple Recent Comments] - widgetized version of [http://www.raoul.shacknet.nu/2006/01/15/simple-recent-comments-wordpress-plugin/ Raoul's Simple Recent Comments]
*[http://tdjc.be/2006/09/19/wordpress-widgets-site-meter-counter/ Site Meter Widget] - Get the benefits of thte full free version of [http://sitemeter.com Site Meter] while just using the username of your Site Meter account.
*[http://www.saltando.net/skype-button-widget/ Skype button Widget] - Adds a customizable Skype "Call me" button to your WordPress Sidebar (Based on "Skype Button" plugin from Anti Veeranna)
*[http://asylum-et.com/downloads/spicypage-sidebar-widget/ Spicypage Sidebar Widget] - Display your spicypage vote stats using a sidebar widget.
*[http://stickiwidgets.com/stickam-chat-room-image-widget/ Stickam Chat Room Image] - display image of Stickam Chat Room participants 
*[http://stickiwidgets.com/stickam-wordpress-sidebar-widget/ Stickam WordPress Sidebar Widget] - to display Stickam Where Am I, Active Chat Rooms, and Friend Tracker  
*[http://patrick.bloggles.info/2006/04/23/get-your-stock-quotes-widgets/ Stock Quotes] - display your favorite stock quotes
*[http://www.prescriber.org.uk/sub2widget.php Subscribe2] - widget access to [http://www.skippy.net/blog/category/wordpress/plugins/subscribe2/ Subscribe2 plugin]
*[http://www.semiologic.com/2006/04/22/subscribe-me-widget/ Subscribe me!] widget and plugin to subscribe to services
*[http://blog.eurekster.com/2006/05/wordpress_widget.html  Swicki] - a customizable search engine that learns from your community&apos;s search behavior

====T====
*[http://www.chipsquips.com/?p=306 Tag Cloud] display a tag cloud from keywords created with [http://vapourtrails.ca/wp-keywords Jerome's Keywords plugin]
*[http://tdjc.be/2006/09/17/wordpress-widgets-freedictionarycom-content/ theFreeDictionary content] - Display free content from theFreeDictionary.com.  Widgets for Quote of the Day, Word of the Day, Article of the Day, This Day in History, and Today’s Birthday.
*[http://www.thegoodblogs.com/wordpress_widget TheGoodBlogs] - Allows bloggers to promote other good bloggers
*[http://xoros.org/blog/index.php/wordpress/ Theme Switcher] - designed to add the [http://dev.wp-plugins.org/wiki/ThemeSwitcher Theme Switcher plugin] by Ryan Boren as a Widget.
*[http://oliphantparts.org/theme-switcher-widget.zip Theme Switcher Widget] - designed to add the [http://dev.wp-plugins.org/wiki/ThemeSwitcher Theme Switcher plugin] by Ryan Boren as a Widget.  Allows you to configure theme list as either a list or dropdown.
*[http://www.ugelow.com/2006/04/17/introducing-theme-widgets/ Theme Widget] - simplifies adding Widgets to Themes
*[http://www.neotrinity.at/projects/ TimeZoneCalculator] - Calculates, displays and automatically updates times and dates in different timezones with respect to daylight saving on basis of UTC.
*[http://www.tbble.net/wp/top10.phps Top 10 Posts] - widget support for [http://weblogtoolscollection.com/archives/2005/11/25/wp-plugin-top-10-posts-and-views-per-post/ Top 10 Posts plugin] 
*[http://www.thephppro.com/plugins/tppSidebarPageSections/ tppSidebarPageSections] - Enables the creation of unlimited widgets through the admin interface - Create NAMED text widgets and named Widgets containing links to pages (and page children)
*[http://www.kloekies.nl/tradetracker-widget/ TradeTracker] - Widget to put TradeTracker Ads on your Wordpress Sidebar.
*[http://trevorcreech.com/blog/2007/02/17/translate-widget-20/ Translate] - allow visitors to translate your blog
*[http://shubhhub.blogspot.com/2007/06/technorati-incoming-links-widget.html Technorati Incoming Links Widget] - displays the incoming links to your blog, using technorati

====U====
*[http://jacob.steenhagen.us/blog/?cat=14 Upcoming Events] - displays a list of upcoming events that can be aggregated from many different iCal feeds.
*[http://www.roccosicilia.it/blog/?p=184 On-line users list] - show the loggedin users list in WordPress side bar.

====V====
*[http://www.bugboysworld.com/?dl=votd_widget.zip Verse of the Day] - places the verse of the day (biblegateway.net) in your sidebar
*[http://butlerblog.com/verse-o-matic Verse-O-Matic] - Have a scripture verse appear on your sidebar. Four display settings - random every page load, random daily, show a list by date, or static until you change it.
*[http://www.darrylkoster.net/?page_id=146 VirtualPlantz Widget] - get a virtual plant at http://www.virtualplantz.com/ and add it to your sidebar with the VirtualPlantz widget.

====W====
*[http://dergraf.net/computer/wordpress/wayback-widget/ Wayback Widget] - displays old posts (e.g. this week last year) and requires [http://code.goringe.net/WordPress/cg_wayback.phps cg_wayback plugin]
*[http://dropdeaddick.com/?p=3 Weather] - displays weather from [http://www.wunderground.com/ wunderground.com]
*[http://www.tbble.net/wp/weatherpixie.phps Weatherpixie] - displays weather from Weatherpixie.com
*[http://maryndor.theicy.com/2006/04/30/whatpulse-widget/ WhatPulse] - displays your [http://whatpulse.org/ whatpulse.org] type/click data
*[http://www.artux.com.ar/contenido/nueva-version-del-plugin-who-link-here-para-mostrar-los-enlaces-entrantes/ Who Link Here] - displays incoming links from Google Blog Search and Technorati
*[http://wholinked.com/wp/ WhoLinked] - displays sites linking to you in real time
*[http://wangenweb.com/2006/06/08/valid-widgets-plugin/ Valid Widgets Plugin] - really a plugin that corrects widget validation 
*[http://alkar.info/archivos/2006/widgetized-democracy/ Widgetized Democracy] - polling widget requires [http://blog.jalenack.com/archives/democracy/ Andrew Sutherland's Demoracy AJAX Poll plugin]
*[http://srv1.willboyce.com/blog.willboyce.com/wbstats/ WB Stats] - displays [http://www.last.fm/ Last.fm current playing track], [http://www.project-dolphin.nl/ Project Dolphin stats], [http://eightface.com/code/wp-mystatus/ myStatus] and [http://www.lesterchan.net/portfolio/programming.php WP-UserOnline] information.
*[http://wholinked.com/wp/index.htm Wholinked] - displays sites linked to your blog.
*[http://maryndor.theicy.com/2006/04/29/wordpress-search-plus/ WordPress Search Plus] - customized search form
*[http://www.aquinashub.co.uk/projects/wordpress-plugins/word-stats/ Word Stats] - display various blogs statistics
*[http://bluezhift.proliphus.com/2006/05/29/worldtime-widget/ Worldtime] - choose three places and display the current date and time
*[http://patrick.bloggles.info/wpwidgets/ WP Bookmarking Widgets] - allow people to subscribe to your blog via Google Reader, myYahoo, myAOL, and more.
*[http://www.rodenas.org/blog/2007/03/08/wp-chgfontsize/ WP-chgFontSize] - allows users to change dynamically the font size by adding a text or image selection on your blog.
*[http://www.rodenas.org/blog/2007/10/09/wp-dopplr/ WP-DOPPLR] - displays your [http://www.dopplr.com/ DOPPLR] information on your blog.
*[http://www.instinct.co.nz/?p=16 WP e-Commerce Lite] - widgetized shopping cart application
*[http://www.rodehacke.ch/Blog/?p=21 WPG2 Image] - display Gallery2 images
*[http://moho.optera.net/projects/wordpress/wpg2imageblock/ WPG2 Image Block] - control Gallery2 images
*[http://www.galleryembedded.com/forums/viewtopic.php?p=18209#18209 WPG2 Search] - a simple search bar for Embedded Gallery2 (WPG2)
*[http://dev.cal-family.org/plugins/wpg2-search-block/ WPG2 Search Block] - lets users search the blog or the embedded gallery from a single search bar
*[http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/wpmu-global-search/ WPMU Global Search] - Adds the ability to search through blogs into your WordPress MU installation.
*[http://marius.scurtescu.com/wp-content/wp-microformats-0.1.tar.gz WP Microformats] - collect hCard and hCalendar data
*[http://www.linksback.org/wordpress/wordpress-plugins/wp-backlinks-wordpress-plugin/ WP-Backlinks] - a widget for trading backlinks to increase your pagerank
*[http://dev.wp-plugins.org/wiki/wp-polls WP Polls] - a widget for WP Polls plugin
*[http://dev.wp-plugins.org/wiki/wp-stats WP Stats] - display selected statistics
*[http://dev.wp-plugins.org/wiki/wp-useronline WP UserOnline] - display users on-line
*[http://patrick.bloggles.info/wpwidgets/ WP Weather Widgets] - Display your local weather forcast
*[http://www.bugboysworld.com/?dl=mygamercardnet_widget.zip XBox Live Gamercard] - places your mygamercard.net service in your sidebar
*[http://www.opensourceinitiative.net Clock widget for wordpress] - displays your clock in your sidebar
*[http://www.opensourceinitiative.net/2006/10/12/monitorus-uptime-monitor-widget-for-wordpress/ Mon.Itor.Us] - free website and web server monitoring service allows to monitor your website performance and availability.

====X====
*[http://wordpress-tuto.fr/xiti-widget-24 Xiti] - Display the Xiti audience logo and give you goods stats on your visitors.
*[http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/xmasb-quotes/ XmasB Quotes] - Display random quote with or without an image in your sidebar.

====Y====
*[http://www.youlicit.com/help/tools/Tools_Blog.aspx Youlicit Related Links] - Display related sites to any outgoing link on your blog when a reader hovers over it.
*[http://planetozh.com/blog/my-projects/wordpress-youtube-favorite-videos/ YouTube Favorite Videos] - display your favorite YouTube videos
*[http://nothingoutoftheordinary.com/2007/05/31/wordpress-youtube-widget/ YouTube] - Display a YouTube video in your sidebar with option to autoplay.

====Z====

[[Category:Widgets]]