{{Languages|
{{en|Windows_Live_Writer_Help}}
{{ja|Windows_Live_Writer_Help}}
}}

The following article will help those using Windows Live Writer with WordPress. For more information and support, see the [http://social.microsoft.com/Forums/en-US/writergeneral/threads/ Windows Live Writer support forum].

===Failure to Post Due to Encoding===

'''Description:''' Weblog is configured to use non-UTF-8 encoding. Attempt to post results in error message “Blog Server Error. Parse error. Not well formed”. Posts from the web UI are fine.

'''Reason and Solution:''' PHP's XML parser does not support encodings besides UTF-8, ISO-8859-1, and US-ASCII. You must use one of these encodings. After changing the setting on your blog, you will need to force Writer to redetect your encoding by choosing the menu option Weblog | Edit Weblog Settings, clicking on the Update Account Configuration button, and stepping through the wizard.

===Invalid Response With PHP===

'''Description:''' On blogs running PHP 5.2.2, trying to configure the blog in Writer gives the following error: ''Invalid Server Response - The response to the blogger.getUsersBlog method received from the weblog server was invalid. / Invalid response document returned from XmlRpc server''.

'''Reason and Solution:''' A bug in PHP 5.2.2 causes POST data to be dropped. See [http://bugs.php.net/bug.php?id=41293 this bug report] for more details. As a workaround, add the following line to the top of your xmlrpc.php file:
 $HTTP_RAW_POST_DATA = file_get_contents("php://input");

===Using Windows Live Writer with WordPress Multisite and Domain Mapping===

Let's say the primary multisite domain is example.com and you've got a subdomain <em>fun.example.com</em> which is mapped to <em>fun.com</em>. If you attempt to connect to the mapped domain <em>fun.com/xmlrpc.php</em> using Live Writer and see the following error:
<blockquote>You signed in successfully with a blog account, but you do not have a blog with this service provider. Check with the blog service provider and then try again.</blockquote>
You should instead use the multisite subdomain <em>fun.example.com/xmlrpc.php</em>

[[Category:Getting Started]]
[[Category:WordPress Help]]