The following information is an overview of some of WordPress Policies and Practices.

== Hold Harmless ==

WordPress developers, representatives, members, founders, hosts, and volunteers (known as WordPress members) have no control over and cannot take responsibility for content published on any blog powered by WordPress. WordPress accepts no responsibility towards content or usage of WordPress software and shall be held harmless from any and all litigation, liability, and responsibilities. 

WordPress members cannot disable WordPress powered websites at any time. The term "Powered by WordPress" is a marketing slogan set by default in the basic installation of WordPress and is subject to editing or removal by the user and is not a statement of responsibility.

== License ==

The [[License|WordPress License]] for distribution is [[GPL|GNU General Public License]]. This means there are certain things that you are legally permitted (and not permitted) to do with WordPress software and source code. The 
GNU General Public License, or GPL, is an open source license. Open source means you can view and modify and redistribute the source code under certain conditions. It also means it is free for such usage.

== Support Forum ==

The WordPress Support Forum volunteers and members monitor the forum for spam, language, and improper use, but it is managed by volunteers and they are not responsible nor liable for any and all usage and content. 

Guidelines for using the WordPress Support Forum can be found at [[Using the Support Forums]]. Reviews of websites are offered for free by volunteers in the '''Your WordPress''' section and guidelines for reviews are found at [[WordPress Site Reviews]].

== Codex ==

The WordPress Codex is the online manual for the WordPress personal publishing (i.e. weblog) system. It is written and produced by volunteers. 

While every effort is made to ensure accuracy, the Codex and its volunteers are not liable for any errors or omissions in text, content, or code. All information is provided "as is," and use of the WordPress Codex is at your own risk. In no event shall its suppliers, subsidiaries, or any party involved with the creation, production, and delivery of the WordPress Codex be liable for any special, indirect, or consequential damages arising from the use of it. For more information on the WordPress Codex, see [[Codex:About|About Codex]].

== Volunteers ==

Depending on where you go (the [http://wordpress.org/support/ WordPress Support Forum]'s, the [http://codex.wordpress.org/ WordPress Codex], the [irc://irc.freenode.net/wordpress <tt>#wordpress</tt> channel] or any of the [[Mailing Lists|mailing lists]]), you will find scores of helpful folks eager to lend you a hand with virtually any aspect of WordPress.

The statements, views and opinions presented by WordPress volunteers are those of the volunteer solely. While WordPress volunteers endeavor to provide helpful information that is suitable and complete with respect to WordPress, they can not guarantee that the information is free from error or omission. Please exercise your own skill and care with respect to any information you are provided by a WordPress volunteer.

== Contributing to WordPress ==

The [http://wordpressfoundation.org/ WordPress Foundation] is a charitable organization founded by Matt Mullenweg to further the mission of the WordPress open source project: to democratize publishing through Open Source, GPL software.

The point of the foundation is to ensure free access, in perpetuity, to the software projects we support. People and businesses may come and go, so it is important to ensure that the source code for these projects will survive beyond the current contributor base, that we may create a stable platform for web publishing for generations to come. As part of this mission, the Foundation is responsible for protecting the WordPress, WordCamp, and related trademarks. As a 501(c)3 non-profit organization, the WordPress Foundation also pursues a charter to educate the public about WordPress and related open source software.

Contributions to the software and organization can be made in various ways, outlined in [[Contributing to WordPress]]. All [http://wordpressfoundation.org/donate/ financial donations] can be made to the Foundation, and information about it can be found on the foundation's website.

[[Category:About WordPress]]
{{Stub}}