{{Languages|
{{en|WordPress_Query_Vars}}
{{ja|WordPress_Query_Vars}}
}}

Query vars define a query for WordPress posts.

When [https://codex.wordpress.org/Using_Permalinks ugly permalinks are enabled], query variables can be seen in the URL. For example, in the URL <tt>http://example.com/?p=1</tt> the <tt>p</tt> query var is set to 1, which will display the single post with an ID of 1.

When [https://codex.wordpress.org/Using_Permalinks pretty permalinks are enabled], URLs don't include query variables. Instead, WordPress transforms the URL into query vars via the [https://codex.wordpress.org/Rewrite_API Rewrite API], which are used to populate the query.

== Relationship to WP_Query ==

Query vars are fed into [https://codex.wordpress.org/Class_Reference/WP_Query WP_Query], WordPress' post querying API. 

== List of Query Vars ==

<div style="width:370px;float:left;padding:0;background:#f5f5f5;border:1px solid #ddd;margin-right:10px;">
; <span style="display:block;margin:0 0 -15px;padding:3px 6px;border-bottom:1px solid #ddd;background:#fff">Public</span> : 
:* <tt>attachment</tt>
:* <tt>attachment_id</tt>
:* <tt>author</tt>
:* <tt>author_name</tt>
:* <tt>cat</tt>
:* <tt>calendar</tt>
:* <tt>category_name</tt>
:* <tt>comments_popup</tt>
:* <tt>cpage</tt>
:* <tt>day</tt>
:* <tt>error</tt>
:* <tt>exact</tt>
:* <tt>feed</tt>
:* <tt>hour</tt>
:* <tt>m</tt>
:* <tt>minute</tt>
:* <tt>monthnum</tt>
:* <tt>more</tt>
:* <tt>name</tt>
:* <tt>order</tt>
:* <tt>orderby</tt>
:* <tt>p</tt>
:* <tt>page_id</tt>
:* <tt>page</tt>
:* <tt>paged</tt>
:* <tt>pagename</tt>
:* <tt>pb</tt>
:* <tt>post_type</tt>
:* <tt>posts</tt>
:* <tt>preview</tt>
:* <tt>robots</tt>
:* <tt>s</tt>
:* <tt>search</tt>
:* <tt>second</tt>
:* <tt>sentence</tt>
:* <tt>static</tt>
:* <tt>subpost</tt>
:* <tt>subpost_id</tt>
:* <tt>taxonomy</tt>
:* <tt>tag</tt>
:* <tt>tag_id</tt>
:* <tt>tb</tt>
:* <tt>term</tt>
:* <tt>w</tt>
:* <tt>withcomments</tt>
:* <tt>withoutcomments</tt>
:* <tt>year</tt>
</div>
<div style="width:370px;float:left;padding:0;background:#f5f5f5;border:1px solid #ddd;margin-right:10px;">
; <span style="display:block;margin:0 0 -15px;padding:3px 6px;border-bottom:1px solid #ddd;background:#fff">Private</span> :  
:* <tt>category__in</tt>
:* <tt>category__not_in</tt>
:* <tt>category__and</tt>
:* <tt>comments_per_page</tt>
:* <tt>offset</tt>
:* <tt>perm</tt>
:* <tt>post__in</tt>
:* <tt>post__not_in</tt>
:* <tt>post_mime_type</tt>
:* <tt>post_parent__in</tt>
:* <tt>tag__and</tt>
:* <tt>tag__in</tt>
:* <tt>tag__not_in</tt>
:* <tt>tag_id</tt>
:* <tt>tag_slug__and</tt>
:* <tt>tag_slug__in</tt>
:* <tt>meta_key</tt>
:* <tt>meta_value</tt>
</div>

<br class="clear">

== Public vs. Private query vars ==

Public query vars can be used in the URL querystring. Private query vars cannot.

Private query vars can only be used when creating a query in PHP. For example,

<pre>
<?php

$query = new WP_Query(array(
	'post__in' => array(3, 7)
));
</pre>

works, but visiting <tt>http://example.com/?post__in=3,7</tt> would not work.