WordPress is a project that touches countless people on a daily basis, and the breadth of the project has grown quite a bit. This is an attempt to delineate the different modules and responsibilities around the WordPress project to make it easier for people to volunteer for something discrete and specific with the project.
==WordPress Specific==
===Testing/XML-RPC and Atom API=== 
;Testing for popular XML-RPC clients (Ecto, w.bloggar); development of WP's standard posting API support.
* Steve Cooley: I regularly use ecto on the mac and I own a license to marsedit, I can help test.  steve@somejunkwelike.com - [[User:SteveCooley|SteveCooley]]
* [[User:KingBYU|Jacob]] I've read most of the Atom API spec, I can help with development if someone will mentor me a bit.

===Testing/Trackbacks, Pingbacks, and Comments===
; Test trackback and pingback functionality between different blogs and blogging systems; audit code regularly for vulnerabilities or bugs; improve pingback support (extraction); outgoing ping development (execute-pings.php).
* Edrei Zahari/kamigoroshi/derevon@hotmail.com: I can't code php, but I regularly pingback and trackback to a lot of sites and blogs and I can check to see whether everything is working well.
* Ian Marlier/ian [at] onepost [dot] net: don't have all that much time -- an hour or two a week.  But I've looked through the pingback code in the earlier versions and think I have a handle on how it works.

===Testing/User system and Roles===
; Ensuring compatibility with old themes and plugins; Documentation of roles.
* David House/davidhouse/dmhouse@gmail.com: I coathoured the Role Manager plugin with Owen so I'm fairly familiar with the API. I can volunteer around 3-4 hours here.
* [[User:Abhay|Abhay Kumar]] a[at]abhaykumar[dot]net: I should get cracking and actually move from armchair to proactive contributor. I can offer 2-3 hours a week here.

===Testing/Javascript and WYSIWYG===
; Consolidating and improving load times; graceful degradation; improving XHTML compatibility (don't mess up people's code); saving JS preferences in user preferences; Ajaxcat, list manipulation, TinyMCE, DBX.
* David House/davidhouse/dmhouse@gmail.com: I'd like to learn more here. I can't offer much at the moment as I'm not too familiar but I'll try. 1-2 hours.
* Brad Fults/h3h/bfults@gmail.com: I can do JS code cleanup and review for now. Later on this year I can devote more time to new development. 1-2 hours.
* Pradyot Ghate/ghate/pradyot_g@yahoo.com: I have worked with JS, XHTML and DOM. Now getting started with AJAX. I would like to help in any possible manner. 2-3 hours.
* Kirk Steffensen/Captkirk/blogger (at sign) steffensenfamily dot com: I designed the Gallery2 Image chooser for TinyMCE ([http://g2image.steffensenfamily.com/ Info], [http://demo.steffensenfamily.com/wordpress/ Live Demo]) for [http://wpg2.ozgreg.com/forums/viewtopic.php?t=1922 integrating WPG2 with WP 2.0].  I have some definite thoughts on improving the TinyMCE integration and would like to be involved.
* Kelvin Li/Ad2001/ad2001@gmail.com: I have quite a few experience in working with JavaScript, CSS, XHTML and PHP.  I'm willing to spend time to improve WP ^_^.

===Testing/Rewrites and Permalinks===
; Testing different rewrite methods includin 404, mod_rewrite, lighttpd; ensuring headers work under PHP CGI, mod_php, etc.

===Testing/Bundled Themes===
; Browser testing; easy to understand; easy to modify; using latest features available in theme system; XHTML validity.
* Chasen Le Hara, [[Rendezvouscp|Rendezvouscp]], rendezvouscp@gmail.com: I'm very enthusiastic about web standards and would love to participate in working with the bundled themes. I'm fairly familiar with XHTML and CSS and am currently learning about DOM Scripting and unobtrusive JS.
* Myo Thwe Lin, me@myothwelin.com: I am passionate about the Wordpress since the release of Version 2.0. I have years of experience dealing with web standards and development. It would be my honor to help out in developing Wordpress themes (in fact I am already doing it). I have strong experience and knowledge with PHP,XHTML,CSS and DOM Scripting.
* [[User:Nao|Naoko McCracken]], info@nao-net.com: I can contribute my time to theme-related tasks.
* I can contribute some time to this also. --[[User:Raena|Raena]] 23:42, 20 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* [[User:Abhay|Abhay Kumar]] a[at]abhaykumar[dot]net - I'm capable enough in W3C standards to contribute here. I can offer 1-2 hours per week
* [[User:jenz|Jennifer Zelazny]], jzelazny[at]sandboxdev[dot]com: I have been working with W3C standards for several years and would love to contribute a few hours a week to WordPress.
* [[User:Yngwin|Yngwin]] aka Ben de Groot: I have produced several WP themes myself and have good knowledge of W3C standards, web development best practices and PHP coding.
* I have edited and worked with many different themes and have created many different websites and webpages.  Have extra space and bandwidth and am familiar with w3c standards. --[[User:Stabani|Stabani]] 18:14, 29 Jan 2006 (GMT)

===Testing/Categories===
; Testing of adding, deleting, renaming, re-nesting, URLs.
* David House/davidhouse/dmhouse@gmail.com: I've written various piecs of code relating to categories, I can help out here. 1-2 hours.

===Testing/In-line Documentation and Editing===
; Including bits of documentation to explain non-intuitive parts of WP; linking to further help; improving brevity and clarity of text.
* How I've longed for inline help for WordPress linking it to the Codex! I can give 5+ hours a week for this project--[[User:Jonabad|Jonabad]] 07:45, 18 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* I've also longed for inline help wwith Codex Hooks, as i also volunteered for Codex, i can give 5 or so hours a week for this aswell. --[[User:Nybble|Nybble]] 05:52, 22 Jan 2006 (GMT)

===Testing/Pages===
; Improving WP's usefulness as a CMS; page editing and features; page listing functions.
* please add rss feeds to pages :-\ (oh, ok, I can help test here, too --[[User:Stevecooley|Stevecooley]] 22:23, 18 Jan 2006 (GMT))
* I have an invested interest in WP's content management functionality in that I'm working to convert a static site I manage to a WP-based one. I'm in to help in this area. -- [[User:ScottFrancis|ScottFrancis]] 02:38, 20 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* [[User:Ttech5593|Joe]] 00:49, 21 Jan 2006 (GMT) : I'll be glad to help with this. I've been using word press since 1.52. I can't program in PHP  but under stand it. Also I have some  ideas on how to make WP a CMS and have been working on making WP a CMS too, but I'll do more if needed. (1-2 Hours at least a week)
*I am a novice at most of this but fascinated and would love to contribute about 4 hours/week in the hope of learning and helping however possible. (Perhaps through research & documentation?) --[[User:André SC|André SC]] 20:30, 22 Jan 2006 (GMT)(PS. Now have at least one freelance client who wants a document repository style CMS site, looks like I'll be able to afford more time on this. :- )--[[User:André SC|André SC]] 18:21, 23 Jan 2006 (GMT))
* [[User:jenz|Jennifer Zelazny]], jzelazny[at]sandboxdev[dot]com: I have been using WordPress as a CMS for my personal web site for almost a year now and would love to help with this!
*I used WP as a CMS quite a bit (clp[at]siolon[dot]com).  Let me know if I can help. [[User:Cpoteet|Chris Poteet]]
* [[User:ApiDevlab|api-devlab]] 08:50, 27 Jan 2006 (GMT) Lots of experience with WP since the early days, can help out in a few ways. Have already contributed to Codex etc so can spare a few hours per week, no probs.
* I have years of experience in programming enterprise Java apps and I know PHP, SQL, Apache, JavaScript, XHTML, CSS, and web standards very well.  I currently use WP as a CMS for all my projects, and I'm willing to invest more than a few hours a week helping the WP development in this area as a full time thing.  I'm more than happy to help in other areas of development also.  I've got a full Eclipse dev environment, SVN, etc. and am ready to start submitting code whenever.  Let me know if I can help!  Thanks! --[[User:RyanScheuermann|RyanScheuermann]] 20:17, 5 Apr 2006 (GMT)

===Testing/Feeds===
; Ensuring standards compliance; testing major aggregators; adding support for new standards; RSS, Atom, OPML, RSD, comment feeds, etc.
* [[User:Yngwin|Yngwin]] aka Ben de Groot: I am very concerned Atom 1.0 support didn't make it into WP 2.0, so I am definitely willing to help out with developing, coding and testing Atom 1.0 feeds.
* [[User:Danny Ayers|Danny]] (.ayers@gmail.com) I'm willing to help in relation to feeds and related alternate representations. I'm familiar with RSS, Atom, RDF but not done much PHP. (Some improved kind of modularization/abstraction of the feed provision was suggested on-list, sounds reasonable, should also make Semantic Web-friendly provision of e.g. category info much easier).
* [[User:Rasterboy|Pete Prodoehl]] I'd be willing to be another set of eyes helping to test feeds. I've got an interesting in enclosures working well, as well as formats like MediaRSS and XSPF.

===Testing/Uploading, File Management, and Media===
; Folder and file permissions; testing upload of different files; thumbnail creation and media support; attachment browsing and management; enclosure types; MIME support.
* [[User:Ttech5593|Joe]] 00:49, 21 Jan 2006 (GMT) : I'll be glad to help here. I know how to get a FM working with WP and will be glad to work, and I can program in PHP (Beginner). 1-2 Hours at least a  week)
* --[[User:FunkyADE|FunkyADE]] 14:03, 9 Feb 2006 (GMT) : file management is 'dear to my heart' as I make much use of it on my own sites. I have intermediate level PHP/XHTML/CSS skills, and know a bit of Python/Perl. I can offer a couple of hours each week to this area.

===Testing/Link Manager===
; OPML export and import; display functionality; UI improvement.
* Mike little: [[User:MikeLittle|MikeLittle]] I orginally wrote the Link Manager. I should contribute more. I can volunteer 4 hours a week.

===Testing/Performance===
; Cache system; benchmarking; profiling and identifying bottlenecks; optimizations.
* Vincent Toms [[User:Vinnyt|Vinnyt]]  I've got several free hours a day I'd like to contribute.

===Testing/Design, Aesthetics (Shuttle), and Usability===
; Making WordPress "purdy"; typography; color coordination; intuitiveness.
* I'd like to be able to help out with that.  I can volunteer a few hours a week. --[[User:Raena|Raena]] 00:33, 20 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* [[User:Abhay|Abhay Kumar]] /a[at]abhaykumar[dot]net: Since there probably doesn't need much work here, I can offer a hour a week here.
* I can help out here an hour or so a week --[[User:Tunicwriter|Tunicwriter]] 10:12, 25 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* [[User:LightDifference|Light Diffference]], spartan.ii[at]mac[dot]com: I can help with this, maybe 2-3 hours a week max.

===Testing/Coding Standards===
; Ensuring WordPress' code is consistent, readable, and well-organized.
* I would like to continue the work I started with my [http://trac.wordpress.org/search?q=massive+code+cleanup&ticket=on Massive Code Cleanup] series of patches, as time permits. --[[User:MarkJaquith|MarkJaquith]] 00:42, 12 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* [[User:Abhay|Abhay Kumar]] - a[at]abhaykumar[dot]net: I've been trying to take [[User:MarkJaquith|Mark's]] cleanup to the next level with this but I'm not sure if my edits have been issues of optimization or cleanup. I guess I'll find out when I'm done. 

===Testing/Security===
; Regularly auditing user input and sanitation; responding to security reports; recommending best practices.

== Testing / QA ==
===Testing/Theme Testing===
; Ensuring major themes work well with the latest WP; browser testing; security / XSS testing in themes.
*I could help here for the localization part, to have theme fulli I18N collaborating with them developper.  I can dedicate several hours a week. *[[User:SteveAgl|SteveAgl]] 11:45, 12 Jan 2006 (GMT)
*Could do some theme work, also a new theme catalogue and a sample blog (I have enough webspace to accommodate a lot of themes) *[[User:Kcsefalvay|Kcsefalvay]] 15:42, 21 Jan 2006 (GMT)
*I could spare a couple of hours a week, and enough space and bandwidth to test out themes. --[[User:Stabani|Stabani]] 18:11, 29 Jan 2006 (GMT)

===Testing/Browser Testing===
; Testing Firefox, IE, Opera, and Safari against major WP functionality; documenting bugs; coding workarounds.
*I have a large variety of browsers which are built for Linux (including old versions), so I will continue to test nightlies and report inconsistencies and incompatibilities whenever time permits. I can use emulation to test under Safari and IE, but I have WinXP and an iMac at work. --[[User:schestowitz|schestowitz]] 3:38, 13 Jan 2006 (GMT) 
*I can help out here a few hours a week, I have a variety of browsers installed here on Windows as well as access to Macs, as well as experience with coding browser workarounds. --[[User:Tunicwriter|Tunicwriter]] 10:10, 25 Jan 2006 (GMT)

===Testing/PHP Environments===
; PHPsuexec; PHP CGI; PHP fcgi; PHP on Dreamhost, Yahoo, Textdrive; PHP on IIS; safe mode; PATH_INFO; etc.
*I can test on Dreamhost, test PHP fcgi, test PHP cgi. --[[User:SrHuevos|SrHuevos]] 02:19, 20 Jan 2006 (GMT) 

===Testing/MySQL Versions===
; 3.23; 4.0; 4.1; 5.0; 5.0 strict.
*[[User:Fusion94|Tony "fusion94" Guntharp]],  I can help you guys test out against various versions of MySQL.

== Related but non-core ==

===[[Responsibilities/Translations]]===
; Coordinating translators; maintaining repository; ensuring strings are translated; RTL support; gettext subsystem.
*I could lead this and I can dedicate several hours a week. *[[User:SteveAgl|SteveAgl]] 11:45, 12 Jan 2006 (GMT)
*We can help at [http://wordpress-ar.sourceforge.net/ WordPress-Arabic].
*Me and Nicol&aacute;s Fantino are mantaining the Spanish repository, also coordinating translation works at [http://wordpress-es.sourceforge.net/ WordPress-es]. I would be glad to help in any other related task. -[[User:Pandem|Pandem]] 21:01, 24 Jan 2006 (GMT)
*Not quite sure if this is the right section. I am a German native speaker and former student of English literature having been involved in several translation projects, probably most prominently in the en->de translation of Fedora Core. Writing new documentation and editing texts are also among my favourite occupations. The time I could spend on the WP project would be around five or more hours per week. [[User:SimStim|SimStim]]
*There are quite a few strings in the backend that do not appear as translated. I could post a list of strings that do not get translated - just tell me where.... [[User:DGvirtual|DGvirtual]] 13:20, 26 Jan 2006 (GMT)
*We ''(as Persian Localizer Team)'' can help on Localization related topics. like features, enhancements, bugs and design issues. We are working on Persian localization in [http://wp-persian.com WP Persian] now. --[[User:Ali ix|Ali Sattari]] 07:38, 27 Jan 2006 (GMT)
*I have already translated and localized WP 1.5 POT file before to my native Bengali (Indian) now I would like to do the same with the new versions. I can dedicate around 4-5 hours each week for this. If there are any other users who would like to help with Bengali Localization then please let me know. -- [[User:Boomboom|Boomboom]]

===Responsibilities/Bug gardening===
; Verifying bugs on Trac; organizing and filing bugs; bringing attention to proper people.
* I would like to continue to help out in this regard, several hours a week.  *[[User:MarkJaquith|MarkJaquith]] 00:38, 12 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* I would like to continue to help out in this regard, approx 2 hours a week verifying taging and possibly patching incoming bugs. *[[User:Westi|Westi]] 07:30, 12 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* I'll carry on. Tagging, giving opinions, general management, patching. [[User:DavidHouse|DavidHouse]] 16:29, 12 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* Not sure how this works. But i can probably help out on finding bugs and stuff, possibly patching them [[User:SHRIKEE|SHRIKEE]] 21:38, 29 Jan 2006 (GMT)

===Responsibilities/Feature requests===
; Collating and filing ideas and feature requests that come up on mailing lists, forums, and IRC meetups.
* Willing to help, approx 2 hours a week *[[User:MichaelH|Michael Hancock]] [[User:MichaelH|MichaelH]] [[User_talk:MichaelH|(talk)]] 03:20, 12 Jan 2006 (GMT)

* I'd like to contribute here. I think there's some logical overlap between this and The Buzz Factor (where I'm also listed). * [[User:ScottFrancis|ScottFrancis]] 02:31, 20 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* [[User:Girlgeek73|Girlgeek73]] 08:49, 22 Jan 2006 (GMT) I would like to assist in this area. Able to contribute about 5 hours a week.

===Responsibilities/Theme directory===
; Organizing themes for easy discoverability and consumption.

* I think there's a lot of opportunity to do something here, collaborating with the folks volunteering for themes.wordpress.net duty and with the other theme sites (codex/Alex King/BloggingPro). I'd love to help. -- [[User:Plankers|Plankers]] 00:45, 22 Jan 2006 (GMT)

* I would like to give my contribute in building a nice theme repository. Can give about 5 hours a week.--[[User:Milus|Milus]] 21:33, 25 Jan 2006 (GMT)

* I find wordpress themes especially flexible and cool, I'd love to help out organising the vast hordes of themes out there.  I can probably spare a couple hours a week.  --[[User:DaveLodwig|DaveLodwig]] 13:25, 24 Feb 2006 (GMT)

===Responsibilities/Plugin directory===
; Same as above but for plugins.
*I'd love to help organize the Plugin directory - Melissa [[User:RainbowSlinky|RainbowSlinky]]

*Fixing up the codex plugin list like some sort of moderator (or i dont know) =) [[User:SHRIKEE|SHRIKEE]]

*I love WordPress and I can spend hours scouring for themes in various places; I'd really like to help moderate a kind of theme portal or something for WordPress. [[User:MenZa|MenZa]]

== Website maintenance and development ==

===Responsibilities/Devblog===
; Regular content and updates for the WordPress development blog so it doesn't look like a ghost town.
* [[User:Elliot|Elliot]] I could spend 1-2 hours a week writing articles about WordPress development.
* I'd like to help out with the devblog. I think that a minimum of a post a week would be helpful with more posts when new releases/bug fixes/awesomness happen. --[[User:Jonabad|Jonabad]] 07:39, 18 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* [[User:Ttech5593|Joe]] 01:01, 21 Jan 2006 (GMT) : I would be glad to help out with the DevBlog and would be glad to post every week or so talking about Word Press, Word Press, Word Press : The good the great and the amazing.
* [[User:Fumbalah|Brett]] I could help out with this as well.  Posting at least one article a week, maybe coordinate with others to keep the blog updated.
* I'm a writer by profession, so blogging here would be an ideal way for me to contribute. [[User:Lastnode|Lastnode]] 02:18, 1 Feb 2006 (GMT)

===Responsibilities/Support forums===
; Tweaking bbPress to work better for our support forums.
* I could help out on this one, and at the present time, have an unlimited number of hours per week i can work on it.  --[[User:Jesusrocksmyfaceoff|Josh]] 4:17 PM, 21 Jan 2006 (CST)

* I'll offer my services here (what there are of them). I ''don't'' have unlimited number of hours per week, but ''do'' have an interest in fixing the problems the forums are going through. -[[User:Kafkaesqui|Kaf]] 17:01, 5 Mar 2006 (GMT)

===Responsibilities/wp-plugins.org===
; Maintaining repository, setting up new users and plugin projects, watching for malicious code in commits, possibly setup a plugin directory and update service, auto-archive download generation from repositories and branches.
* I could help this one helping developers to make plugins internationalised and then localized. I can dedicate some hours a week.  --[[User:SteveAgl|SteveAgl]] 10:02, 12 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* I could help out on this one, and at the present time, have an unlimited number of hours per week i can work on it.  --[[User:Jesusrocksmyfaceoff|Josh]] 4:17 PM, 21 Jan 2006 (CST)

===Responsibilities/themes.wordpress.net===
; Same as above but for themes.
* I could help this one helping developers to make plugins internationalised and then localized. I can dedicate some hours a week.  --[[User:SteveAgl|SteveAgl]] 10:02, 12 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* I could help out on this one, and at the present time, have an unlimited number of hours per week i can work on it.  --[[User:Jesusrocksmyfaceoff|Josh]] 4:17 PM, 21 Jan 2006 (CST)

===Responsibilities/wordpress.org===
; Maintain servers and keep everything running and fast, hone and edit language for maximum effect, increase traffic, mailing lists, downloads and tracking.
* I can devote a couple of hours a week to maintaining the content and keeping an eye on things. --[[User:Wantmoore|Wantmoore]] 11:32, 12 Jan 2006
* I can assist here as well. This ties together the devblog and general Buzz. --[[User:Jonabad|Jonabad]] 07:39, 18 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* I am a sysadmin by day (and sometimes night), I could help in this area a few hours per week. --[[User:Plankers|Plankers]] 00:45, 22 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* I'd like to help out here: I'm a sysadmin for an ISP, and also do volunteer sysadmin for other FLOSS projects. --[[User:Evilneuro|Evilneuro]] 10:48, 24 Jan 2006 (GMT)

===Responsibilities/International websites===
; Create a framework for translations of WordPress.org to live on subdomains of WP.org, share a login system, have distinct forums, downloads, dev blog, and possibly wiki.
* We at WordPress.de might help out as consultants though we won't be able to contribute any source code to the project. Besides, maybe a common template for international websites would suffice (leaving some independence to the projects)? --[[User:TigerDE2|TigerDE2]] 09:09, 24 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* People from Wordpress.org.pl - I think we could be helpful in supporting polish users, propagate wordpress in Poland & could translate some docs, plugins etc. --[[User:Fanatyk|Fanatyk]]

===Responsibilities/Language leaders===
; People to coordinate the teams and support around the different languages WordPress has a following in.
* I should help this one. I can dedicate some hours a week.  --[[User:SteveAgl|SteveAgl]] 10:02, 12 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* I might help out with this one as well. I speak German and English and a little French. And I'm involved with WordPress.de anyway. [[User:TigerDE2|TigerDE2]] 18:13, 22 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* I am also available for this. -[[User:Pandem|Pandem]] 21:08, 24 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* [[User:XiBe|XiBe]] here, I'm responsible for the French translation. I'm French, and obviously I also speak English. [[User:XiBe|XiBe]] 00:13, 7 Feb 2006 (GMT)
* I would like to help here. I speak 2 languages, and have around 5 to 10 hours for this every week.--[[User:PotterSys|Juan Correa [PS]]] 22:13, 13 Feb 2006 (GMT)

== Project related ==

===Responsibilities/The buzz factor===
; Monitor people talking about WordPress, track blogs that mention the project, summarize feedback, be extra friendly.
* I think that this ties well into the WordPress.org's content. "What people are saying about WordPress, etc" --[[User:Jonabad|Jonabad]] 07:42, 18 Jan 2006 (GMT)

* I visit sites that talk about Wordpress plugins, themes, and so on and would love to post stuff from their blog to a wordpress.org blog that people would visit. I can spend about a hour a day doing this each day. -- [[User:talk:ch0de|ch0de]] 9:13 PM 19 Jan 2006

* I'll be glad to monitor blogs and such for mentions of WordPress and help to summarize it somewhere. --[[User:LEilers|LEilers]] 22:55, 19 Jan 2006 (GMT)

* I'd like to track WordPress and serve as diplomat if/as appropriate. -- [[User:ScottFrancis|ScottFrancis]] 01:10, 20 Jan 2006 (GMT)

* I'd also like to do what ch0de suggested; post comments from other blogs or sites to a WordPress blog, using links to direct people to positive comments or helpful tidbits of information. I'd like to share my experiences using plug-ins and hacks (too strong a word for what I do, but you get the idea). -- [[User:MariaLanger|MariaLanger]] 14:58, 21 Jan 2006 (GMT)

*I currently am running a blog that is WP related, and would be more than happy to contribute what I gather for such a project. [[User:Miklb|Miklb]] 06:30, 22 Jan 2006 (GMT)

*Will search and forward as well.  Suggest outreach to various sites (cmsmatrix.org, cmsreview.com) as well. --[[User:Webslog|WebSlog]] 16:32, 31 Jan 2006 (GMT)

*Again - this is something I can do well - let me know how I can help. [[User:Evilzenscientist|Evilzenscientist]] 23:12, 9 Mar 2006 (GMT)

===Responsibilities/Marketing===
; Hone the evolution of how WP is presented, how features are emphasized, coordinate any free advertising or sponsorship opportunities we have, think of new ways to promote WP and expand it to new audiences.

* I'd love to help increase the WordPress buzz in the blogosphere. I can coordinate marketing efforts and design no-budget campaigns to spread the word. --[[User:MARKETANOMALY|MARKETANOMALY]] 13:37, 20 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* The resources of The Next Wave [http://www.thenextwave.biz] and blogosopher [http://www.blogosopher.com] are at your disposal. We are using WordPress extensively to help our clients market their products and grow their site. We specialize in brand building and guerrilla campaigns.--[[User:NextWave|NextWave]] 03:37, 21 Jan 2006 (GMT)

* Happy to help, especially in the areas of getting WP in front of non-profits and others with high communication needs and low fundage.  Too many NPs are hiding their light under a bushel basket and WP could help get that word out;  can help let NPs know AND provide suggestions on how to utilize WP features, plug-ins, etc.  --[[User:Webslog|WebSlog]] 16:32, 31 Jan 2006 (GMT)

* Happy to help here; especially with messaging refinement and other go-to-market. My way of giving back to WordPress [[User:Evilzenscientist|Evilzenscientist]] 23:08, 9 Mar 2006 (GMT)

===Responsibilities/Support===
; Help people on the forums, identify parts of the application that could be improved to decrease problems, summarize the key support issues from week to week, assist documentation team in creating intuitive and helpful docs. All with the eventual goal of making support requests eventually approach zero. (Because it's so great, not because we've scared everyone off.)
* Willing to continue to assist here.  4-10 hours a week -- [[User:MichaelH|Michael Hancock]] [[User:MichaelH|MichaelH]] [[User_talk:MichaelH|(talk)]] 03:14, 12 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* I'll keep doing my bit there. Time ? Around 10 hours a day -- --[[User:Podz|Podz]] 16:32, 12 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* I can help out for about 2 hours a day. -- [[User:talk:ch0de|ch0de]] 9:13 PM 19 Jan 2006
* I'll be sure to continue to give advice here as best I know how for some few hours a week. -- [[User:Petit|Petit]] 23:03, 23 Jan 2006
===Responsibilities/Codex and Documentation===
; Work with support to identify key areas that need documenting, keep Codex up to date and organized, keep the documentation accessible and easy to skim, identify places where [[Inline_Documentation|Inline Documentation]] might be appropriate for bundling with WP, watch for spelling and grammar mistakes.  
* I want to continue helping here. I have 5 hours a week for write some docs.--[[User:PotterSys|Juan Correa [PS]]] 01:19, 12 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* Willing to continue to assist and lead here.  6-10 hours a week -- [[User:MichaelH|Michael Hancock]] [[User:MichaelH|MichaelH]] [[User_talk:MichaelH|(talk)]] 03:14, 12 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* I'd like to help here, too. I could write new topics on an introductory level. (I'm relatively new to WordPress but have proven computer how-to writing skills.) I'd also consider editing existing content to make it clearer or easier to understand; I'd learn a lot about WordPress doing that, too. I can give you 1 to 3 hours a week, depending on workload. -- [[User:MariaLanger|MariaLanger]] 14:58, 21 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* I'm good with proofreading, corrections, organization, and keeping it relevant. I can also to some beginner tutorials, 5 hours a week. --[[User:Nybble|Nybble]] 05:56, 22 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* I'd like to offer my proofing skills as well.  I write documentation and facilitate user testing at my work.  Anywhere else I can be of service - I'm game.  5+ hours a week.--[[User:Tina Renee|Tina Renee]] 03:11, 23 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* I'd like to help out, but due to time constraints, can manage only 1 - 2 hours a week. [[User:Lastnode|Lastnode]] 02:17, 1 Feb 2006 (GMT)

== Proposed Responsibilites ==

If you can think of something that isn't covered above and needs one or more people focused on it full-time, please add it below. Follow the format of the above and please sign your name after the proposal.

===Responsibilities/Plugin Hook API===
; Development of the plugin hook API, placement of new plugin hooks, and best practices for using existing plugin hooks. --[[User:MarkJaquith|MarkJaquith]] 00:37, 12 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* I would like to help out with this.  I've spent quite a lot of time on [http://wphooks.flatearth.org/ the WP hook database] and plan to spend a lot more time finishing the documentation of all the hooks.  I don't think this will require a lot of time, but I can be available for several hours a week. --[[User:MarkJaquith|MarkJaquith]] 00:37, 12 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* I'd like to help out on this project as well. I'd take a little while to come up to speed on the existing plugin hooks as I haven't used them much so far, but afterwards I could volunteer around 5 hours a week for testing, documentation or coding as the need may be. --[[User:John Myles White|John Myles White]] 02:34, 25 Jan 2006 (GMT)

===Responsibilities/SEO Compatibility===
; There should be an effort to monitor changes to WP to ensure it remains within the realm of SEO best practices and that a new feature or technology does not put sites at risk due to changing search algos. --[[User:JohnC|JohnC]] 20:46, 26 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* I could help out with this. I have been doing SEO for many years and have been using WP for a couple as well. I also moderate on a major SEO Forum. --[[User:JohnC|JohnC]] 20:46, 26 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* I have just been doing some research on SEO improvements with WP and I will soon publish my findings. I am willing to help to assist the core WP code to make sure it is really search engine friendly. This includes removing duplicate content issues and more. I can contact you when I finish my findings. - [[User:Jim_Westergren|Jim Westergren]] [[User_talk:Jim_Westergren|(talk)]] 02:58, 30 Dec 2006 (UTC)