== Description ==

The WordPress views system enables live previewing of certain shortcodes while editing a post.  '''wp.mce.views''' is a set of utilities that simplifies adding custom UI within a TinyMCE editor.  At its core, it serves as a series of converters, transforming text to a custom UI, and back again.  The WordPress audio-playlist, video-playlist, audio embeds and video embeds are examples of WordPress views.

Important: Note that Wordpress 4.2 includes a major rewrite of the wp-views as described [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/31412 here]

== Usage ==

%%% wp.mce.views.register( id, view-object ) %%%


== Technical Details ==
A wp.mce.view instance is an extension (subclass) of the [http://backbonejs.org/ Backbone View] type:

 wp.mce.View.extend = Backbone.View.extend;

 _.extend( wp.mce.View.prototype, { ... methods of wp.mce.View ... }

The methods of the view include:

'''render''' Renders all view nodes tied to this view instance that are not yet rendered.

'''getNodes''' Gets all view nodes tied to this view instance. Parameters:

* @param {Function} callback A callback. callback( ''mce editor object'', ''view'', ''view .wpview-content element'' ) is called for each of this view that is shown in each editor supporting wp-views.
* @param {Boolean}  rendered Get (un)rendered view nodes. Optional.


'''setContent''' Sets the content for all view nodes tied to this view instance. Parameters:
* @param {*}        content  The content to set.
* @param {Function} callback A callback. Optional.
* @param {Boolean}  rendered Only set for (un)rendered nodes. Optional.

'''setIframes''' Sets the content in an iframe for all view nodes tied to this view instance. Parameters:

* @param {String}   head     HTML string to be added to the head of the document.
* @param {String}   body     HTML string to be added to the body of the document.
* @param {Function} callback A callback. Optional.
* @param {Boolean}  rendered Only set for (un)rendered nodes. Optional.

For complete API see the source code.

== Source File ==
<tt>wp.mce.views</tt> source is located in {{Trac|js/_enqueues/wp/mce-view.js}} and output in `wp-includes/js/mce-view.js` during build.

== Resources ==

* [https://github.com/dtbaker/wordpress-mce-view-and-shortcode-editor WordPress custom TinyMCE view and shortcode editor] - An example of wp.mce.views.register() to create a view for a shortcode and adds a tinymce popup for editing the shortcode.
* [http://generatewp.com/take-shortcodes-ultimate-level/ Take your shortcodes to the ultimate level] - Tutorial for using wordpress views

== Related ==

[[Category:Advanced Topics]]