== Description ==

When installing [[WPMU | WordPress MU]] (WPMU), an administrator can choose to use sub-domains or sub-directories for blog addresses. This presents a challenge for WordPress Plugin and Theme developers. How can a Plugin of Theme function determine if WordPress MU is using sub-domains or sub-directories?

The VHOST constant stores whether WordPress MU is using sub-domains for blog addresses. If an administrator chooses to use sub-domains, VHOST contains a value of "yes". If the administrator chooses to use sub-directories, VHOST is set with a value of "no".

== Usage ==

A WordPress Plugin or Theme function can access the value of VHOST using the PHP constant function. <br>
%%%<?php constant( "VHOST" ); ?>%%%

== Example ==

The VHOST constant could be used within a plugin to control a logical test. The code below will print a different message depending on whether WPMU is using sub-domains or sub-directories. 

<pre>
    if( constant( "VHOST" ) == 'yes' )
        echo "I'm using sub-domains for blog addresses!";
    else
        echo "I'm using sub-folders for blog addresses.";
</pre>

== References ==

For more information on the PHP Constant VHOST used in WordPress MU, see:

* [http://mu.wordpress.org/forums/topic/12322 What is the purpose of the VHOST constant and when should it be 'no' or 'yes']
* [http://mu.wordpress.org/forums/topic/9940 WordPress MU Couldn't Find Constant VHOST]
* [http://xref.yoast.com/wpmu-trunk/_constants/index.html#VHOST PHP Cross Reference of WordPress MU Trunk for Constant VHOST]

[[Category:WPMU]]
[[Category:New_page_created]]