{{Languages|
{{en|Codex:Guidelines}}
{{es|Codex_Guidelines}}
{{ko|Codex:Guidelines}}
{{pt-br|Guia}} 
{{zh-cn|Codex:准则}}
}}
;欢迎！: 这个页面包含志愿者在 Codex 贡献时应当注意的事项。若您对如下内容有意见和建议，请使用英文在 [[Mailing_Lists#docs|WordPress Documentation 邮件列表]]中发布。

== 基本要求 ==

# '''正确拼写 WordPress，并注意其大小写。''' '''W'''ord'''P'''ress
# '''持良好的态度''' —— 请不要进行人身攻击，或进行其它粗暴的行为。请使用专业、礼貌和耐心的语气。
# 请尽量逐段编辑。
# 大胆地编辑。
# 若您有问题，请及时提问。
# 祝愉快！ :)

另，根据 Codex [[User:MichaelH|管理员]]和[http://lists.automattic.com/pipermail/wp-docs/2011-March/002509.html 邮件列表中工作人员的指示]，请不要在页面中添加个人信息和链接，用户页面除外。请各位在看到类似信息时帮助删除，谢谢。

{{Message|
| background = #FCECAD
| border = #CCCCCC
| color = #000000
| text = 由于 Codex 贡献工作主要面对能够熟练理解英文的用户，下面内容不再进行翻译。
}}

===New Pages===

New articles and pages are welcome. There is a process, though. 

'''If you are not a registered user, following these instructions: [[Codex:Contributing#First_Things_First|Contributing: First Things First]].'''

'''If the article is fairly complete, you may add it as a new page. See: [[Codex:Creating_a_New_Page|Creating a New Page]].'''

'''If the article is incomplete and a rough draft, you may add it as a subpage of your user page. See [[Codex:Creating_a_User_Page|Creating a User Page]].'''

'''Please follow the Codex Styles for articles established here: [[Codex:Styles|Codex Styles]] and [[Help:Editing|Editing Help]]'''

The following are guidelines for contributing new work to the Codex:

# If there is an article that resembles your article, improve the existing page.
# Use the [[Sandbox|Sandbox]] page for practice styling.
# Add a link from another article to your article to develop interconnections between articles. Do not create "dead-end pages". These are pages without links to other Codex pages.
# Once pages are created, they are live, and any links to them will work. When a user clicks their way to an empty page, they have wasted their time. '''Only create pages when you have fairly complete and accurate content to put into them.'''
# Once completed and moved out into the documentation from your user page, links must be made from the "sub" Table of Contents and other related documents to the new article. Ask if you are not sure of where to create a link from the sub-Table of Contents. Do not put a link on the [[Main Page]] without permission from the [[Documentation team]].

Use the following "stubs", categories which designate the state an article is in:

{{Message|
| background = #FCECAD
| border = #CCCCCC
| color = #000000
| text = 请注意添加 <code>zh-cn:</code> 前缀到特定的模板或分类。
}}

;<nowiki>{{zh-cn:Stub}}</nowiki> :The '''Stub''' categorizes the page as '''incomplete''' and in need of editing and expansion.
;<nowiki>{{zh-cn:Draft}}</nowiki> :Put this at the top of the page. All pages added are scanned by search engines. The '''Draft''' notice at the top of every page will warn others that this is a work in progress, that the information may be incorrect, and may also warn others not to edit it until you are finished working on it.
;<nowiki>[[Category:zh-cn:新页面]]</nowiki> :Defines a page as new and will attract the attention of editors. Do not use until you are ready for editing and/or moving the article out into the general documentation from your user page.
;<nowiki>{{zh-cn:Copyedit}}</nowiki> :'''Copyedit''' designates this article as in need of work, usually general overview and editing. It marks it as fairly complete but needing review. Use <nowiki>{{zh-cn:Stub}}</nowiki> for incomplete articles.

=== Titles ===

All headings must also be in Title Case.  For example, use "Using the Links Manager" not "Using the links manager". These should be full titles.  Not "IntroToBlogs" but "Introduction to Blogs". 

They should also follow the Dr. Grammar rules regarding capitalization thus:''"In titles, capitalize the first word, the last word, and all words in between except articles (a, an, and the), prepositions under five letters (in, of, to), and coordinating conjunctions (and, but). These rules apply to titles of long, short, and partial works as well as your own papers"'' ''(Anson, Schwegler, and Muth. The Longman Writer's Companion 240)'' 

# Titles are action or task oriented whenever possible. So, "Using the Links Manager" is preferred to "The Links Manager" for example. What search words will a user use when looking for the information?
# Titles shall not have leading or trailing spaces, or unnecessary spaces in between words. Try to avoid using symbols such as "-", "#", "?" and "+"
# Shorter titles are better
# Please avoid using prepositions in titles, as far as possible.
# The Codex is a wiki entirely dedicated to WordPress, so it is natural to have "WordPress" in titles.
# In case of doubt regarding the suitability of a name, mail the [[Mailing_Lists#docs|wp-docs list]] asking for suggestions 
# Do not use '''CamelCase''' for page titles: The Codex does not use CamelCase like some other wikis do. All page titles and therefore links should be of normal title case. For example, the page about Codex should have the title "About Codex", with the link formatted as: <code><nowiki>[[About Codex]]</nowiki></code> and not the CamelCase <code><nowiki>[[AboutCodex]]</nowiki></code>.

===Codex Categories===

{{Message|
| background = #FCECAD
| border = #CCCCCC
| color = #000000
| text = 请注意添加 <code>zh-cn:</code> 前缀到特定的模板或分类。
}}

Each article within the WordPress Codex is categorized with specific categories, as listed on the [[Special:Categories]] listing. Please use one or more of the categories listed and do not add any new categories without approval from the [[Documentation_team|WordPress Codex Documentation Team]] as a lot of work has gone into developing these categories.

To add a category to a page, at the bottom of the page use the following code, taking care to use the exact spelling and format from the [[Special:Categories]] list.

<code>&#91;&#91;Category:Category name]]</code>

An example would be:

<code>&#91;&#91;Category:WordPress Lessons]]</code>

'''Localization:''' For non-English language documents on the WordPress Codex, please use the two letter language code before the Category Name to group language specific documents:

<code>&#91;&#91;Category:fr:Panneaux_Administration]]</code>

You may also include the language specific category for all documents in that language such as:

<code>&#91;&#91;Category:Turkish Codex]]</code>

'''Link to a Category:''' To create a link to a category, use a colon before the word "Category" and add the link text for improved readability such as:

<code>&#91;&#91;:Category:WordPress_Lessons|WordPress Lessons]]</code>

Which will appear in a sentence as:

<div style="margin:10px; border:1px solid blue; padding:5px">You can find more helpful information in the [[:Category:WordPress_Lessons|WordPress Lessons]] category on the WordPress Codex.</div>

'''Category Pages:''' Category pages are created automatically and customized by the WordPress Codex Documentation Team to include related and subcategories. 

'''More Help:''' For more help on understanding how categories work in the WordPress Codex and MediaWiki, see [[Help:Editing]] and [http://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Help:Category MediaWiki Help on Categories].

====类别分类====

The WordPress Codex features parent categories and child or subcategories, reflecting the general table of contents. The content is currently grouped as follows:

* 开始熟悉 WordPress
* 熟练使用 WordPress
* 布局与设计
* 高级主题
* 排除故障
* 开发文档
* 关于 WordPress
* 公告

{{Message|
| background = #FCECAD
| border = #CCCCCC
| color = #000000
| text = 请注意添加 <code>zh-cn:</code> 前缀到特定的模板或分类。
}}

Under "开始熟悉 WordPress" are categories such as [[:Category:zh-cn:学习使用_WordPress|zh-cn:学习使用 WordPress]], [[:Category:zh-cn:WordPress_帮助|zh-cn:WordPress 帮助]], [[:Category:zh-cn:开始使用|zh-cn:开始使用]], and [[:Category:zh-cn:排除故障|zh-cn:排除故障]]. Under "熟练使用 WordPress" would be [[:Category:zh-cn:条件判断标签|zh-cn:条件判断标签]], [[:Category:zh-cn:Feed|zh-cn:Feed]], [[:Category:zh-cn:函数|zh-cn:函数]], [[:Category:zh-cn:模板标签|zh-cn:模板标签]], [[:Category:zh-cn:模板|zh-cn:模板]], and [[:Category:zh-cn:WordPress_的优化|zh-cn:WordPress 的优化]]. 

Some categorization makes sense. If an article is about WordPress Plugins, the [[:Category:zh-cn:插件|zh-cn:插件]] definitely applies. However, what level of technical information is in the article? Who will benefit the most from reading it? If it is really basic, then it should be also categorized in the [[:Category:zh-cn:学习使用_WordPress|zh-cn:学习使用 WordPress]] category. If it is advanced and technical, on the coding and writing of Plugins, then it shouldn't be in the zh-cn:学习使用 WordPress category. It should be in the [[:Category:zh-cn:高级话题|zh-cn:高级话题]] and/or [[:Category:zh-cn:WordPress_开发|zh-cn:WordPress_开发]], depending upon the sophistication of the information. Use your best judgment.

====Adding a New Category====

{{Message|
| background = #FCECAD
| border = #CCCCCC
| color = #000000
| text = 请注意添加 <code>zh-cn:</code> 前缀到特定的模板或分类。
}}

Categories in the WordPress Codex are added by the senior members of the [[Documentation_team|WordPress Codex Documentation Team]] and reflect the table of contents of the Codex. In general, the criteria for adding categories to the Codex are:

;Specific to WordPress Features: The category title must reflect the features and functions of WordPress by their proper name. 
;Use Proper WordPress Syntax: While names of WordPress features, functions, and panels may change organically, in general, use the official names for the various features of WordPress such as the '''Administration Panels''' not dashboard, admin panels, or UI for the category name. 
;Use WordPress Codex Styles: All category names must meet these guidelines and the [[Codex:Styles|Codex Styles]] and must use title capitalized, not lowercase as MediaWiki treats upper and lower case URLs as separate pages. Use of "WordPress" in the category is acceptable and not to be avoided if necessary, such as '''About WordPress''' rather than '''About''' as to allow '''About Codex''', '''About Development''', and other "abouts" to be used.
;WordPress Codex Localization: All category names for translated and non-English language pages '''must''' feature the two letter language code before the category.
;Consider the Audience: Create categories based upon keywords and search terms, words that will help the user find the information they need. If the information is basic, use the terms "Beginner" or "Basic" in the category name, as well as "Advanced" if necessary.

===SubPages===

Do not create sub-pages of a page, other than from your own User page, without discussing first on the wp-docs mailing list.  Exceptions to this are the pages under [[Function Reference]] (each of which describes a single function).

===Discussions===

'''Using the "Talk" pages'''

Do you see something that is perhaps incorrect, or needs clarification? The best way to make mention of any issues is to use the DISCUSSION function. Please refrain from adding your comments directly onto the ARTICLE page. At the top of every page is a '''''DISCUSSION tab'''''. This is the place to make your comments, suggestions, and such. Thank you!

#'''Leaving Messages About the Article:''' To leave a message regarding the article, click the '''Discussion''' tab of that article and post your message and sign it (see below).
#'''Leaving Messages for Users:''' Leave a message for a user by editing the User:Talk page associated with the user. Sign it (see below). The user will receive a visual prompt the next time they visit the Codex and Login.
#'''Separate Comments:''' Please create a horizontal rule between comments on the discussion page by using four dashes <nowiki>----</nowiki> between entries. If you are starting a new thread of conversation, consider using the "+" link next to edit, which lets you create a new section.
#'''Always Sign Your Comments:''' To add your "signature" to a comment, add four ~s (tildes) at the end of your comment. This will list your User Name and a link to your User Page and add a time-stamp.  This is very useful for discussion pages. An alternative method is to click on the signature icon at the top of the edit window...it's the second one from the right.

===Codex Voice, Style, and Audience===

The "voice" of the WordPress Codex is one of authority, but also a friendly conversational voice. The style of the Codex is to educate by providing simple and easy-to-use explanations when possible, and technical advice when necessary.

In general, articles are written '''to the reader''', taking the reader through the process.  The pronoun "I" is rarely used, focusing on "you click here" and "you open the template file".  It is not about what you, the author, did, the story behind your decisions, or all the people who helped you succeed. It is about what the user needs to do in order to get their WordPress site up and functioning fast. 

Bullets and lists are used to highlight the steps necessary to outline and streamline the process. Complicated tasks are broken down into small steps, guiding the novice or advanced user quickly to the solution.

The audience is extremely varied in ability and skill in HMTL, XHTML, CSS, and PHP. Articles found within the [[Advanced Topics]] and [[Developer Documentation]] are targeted for the experienced user. [[WordPress Lessons]] are designed for the novice, using language as if the author was the technical support volunteer sitting down next to the user at the computer, guiding them through the process.  The rest of the Codex is targeted towards the beginner to intermediate level user and should contain simple language with links to definitions within the [[Glossary]] when necessary.

===约定===
<div style="color:red; margin:20px">翻译时请遵守如下规范，以保持文档的一致性和可读性！</div>

#'''网址规范：''' 当你要列举网址时请使用 '''example.com''', '''example.org''' 或 '''example.net''' 代替。
#'''管理员：''' 站点的主<code>管理员</code>。
#'''人名规范：''' 当要列举一个普通的、非管理员的人名时，请使用 '''张伟''' 代替。
#'''WordPress拼写规范：''' 规范拼写为'''WordPress''', '''W''' 和 '''P''' 为大写字母。请勿使用 ''' wordpress'''、'''WORDPRESS'''、'''Wordpress''' ……等不规范拼写。
#'''其他规范:'''<br /> '''Administration Panels'''  ->  '''管理台 '''；<br />'''admin panels'''  ->  '''管理员面板 '''；<br />'''admin dashboard'''  ->  '''管理员面板 '''；

=Related=

* [[Codex:About|About Codex]]
* [[Codex:Contributing|Contributing to Codex]]
* [[Codex:Maintenance|Codex Maintenance]]
* [[Codex:Tasks|Task List]]
* [[Codex:Styles|Codex Styles]]
* [[Codex:Community_Portal|Community Portal]]
* [[Multilingual Codex]]

[[Category:zh-cn:About Codex]]

{{Languages|
{{en|Codex:Guidelines}}
{{pt-br|Guia}} 
{{zh-cn|Codex:准则}}
}}