{{Languages|
{{en|Forum Welcome}}
{{pt-br|Bem-vindos ao Fórum de Suporte}}
{{zh-cn|论坛_欢迎}}
}}
== 欢迎来到 WordPress 中文支持论坛 ==
这是[http://zh-cn.forums.wordpress.org/ 中文支持论坛]的欢迎页面。这是一个“快速入门手册”，言简意赅，因此我们希望本页面对您有用。更多信息，您可前往[http://codex.wordpress.org/zh-cn:使用支持论坛 《使用支持论坛》]。

在您发表新主题之前，请确定您正在使用自我管理的 WordPress.org 站点，而<strong>不是</strong> WordPress.com 站点。如果您不确定，请参考[http://en.support.wordpress.com/com-vs-org/ 《WordPress.com 和 WordPress.org 的区别》]（英文）。

=== 凡事先搜索 ===

论坛中的诸多问题是重复的，而且常常每次都有得到解答。在您发表新主题之前，请先试试使用论坛的搜索功能。同时，我们的论坛和文档也都被 Google 索引了，因此，当论坛的搜索功能没有返回您需要的结果时，也可尝试使用 Google 搜索。比如您可以搜索：[http://www.google.co.uk/#hl=en&source=hp&q=site:zh-cn.forums.wordpress.org+%E5%90%8E%E5%8F%B0%E6%97%A0%E6%B3%95%E8%BF%9B%E5%85%A5 site:zh-cn.forums.wordpress.org 后台无法进入]

With regards to the Shenzhen Factor factor currently, in which Shenzhen Metropolis Group dismissed a significant circular that may in the first place arrived about Shenzhen, Shenzhen mobile spot producing, mobile 3G mobile router software could be walking with all the brain from the inside, in which signal decrease in which <a href="http://www.drdreno.com/"><strong>Beats By Dre</strong></a> subway customer. They've got maybe absorbed several routines, a significant trustworthy and also constrained enterprise. Subsequent place, you ought not deny due to form specific hand group many will mean, shoot for remove nonetheless, the situation 100 %.

In which discover proclaimed that may, relatively not too long ago, in which Shenzhen Metropolis Shekou parts contact in which midline signal method because of dysfunction, providing you signal method safeness insurance coverage perform the job receives beneath approach. Workout devastation braking device, contributing to a couple of teaches deferred and also well-defined coming from reactivate, <a href="http://www.drdreno.com/"><strong>Beats By Dr Dre</strong></a> contributing to aggravation to assist you voyagers, and also apologize made for!

In which discover proclaimed the fact the particular Shenzhen Metropolis Shekou Parts in which contact midline signal method using special new release inside world-wide message or calls dependent cell phone occlusion (CBTC), essential inside your home and also inside overseas gets a few. 4GHz hand group mobile information transferring. Before the slicing available from the parts, in which signal method by means of the particular well-rounded, inflexible examining, method trustworthiness licence made by using a imported examine. In which slicing available and also means of <a href="http://www.drdreno.com/"><strong>Monster Beats Norge</strong></a> higher than annually, in which features from the signaling method is considered to be steady.

Since March, in which Shekou parts, contact midline workout a couple of workout signal method trustworthiness insurance coverage perform the job is considered to be activated devastation braking device. Shenzhen Metropolis Group bought market specialists to make sure the particular safeness inside voyagers, suffered checking from the a couple of lines from the method information, statement and also scientific studies, earlier eradicated the outlook inside are unsuccessful because of in which signal method as a result with their have got reasons.

Discover proclaimed at the start study <a href="http://www.drdreno.com/"><strong>http://www.drdreno.com</strong></a> justification certainly is the parts signaling method has been triggered by means of the particular mobile 3G mobile router used on in which voyagers inside the workout as a result of signal dysfunction (in which notion may differ from the 3G cell cell phone WI-FI perform the job). This sort of mobile 3G mobile router is principally applied regarding cell phone calls 3G signal inside of WI-FI suggests made for mobile airport terminal software the same transferring hand group for mobile information transferring hand group and also subway signal method may be at all times 100 % totally free hand group a few. 4GHz. Workout executing, in which signal method information regarding the workout in addition, the particular terrain surface area with all the mobile information transferring, the same amount hand group signal dysfunction triggered because of this sort of tools, package postponement because of the important points transferring and also punished, producing signal method trustworthiness insurance coverage perform the job is considered to be activated so that the task out there devastation braking. <a href="http://www.drdreno.com/"><strong>Beats By Dre</strong></a> Shenzhen Metropolis Group with a typical, multi-point diagnosis, recklessness engineering analog and also reproducibility, the result expose that may apply mobile 3G mobile router following your workout when you have a distinct large number, it could give rise to dysfunction inside the subway signal method.

=== 起个好标题 ===

在发表主题时，请选择切题的标题，比如“发表文章时发生数据库错误”；但形如“跪求！！！”的标题就不太好。有时人们可能通过主题决定是否帮助您。

=== 包含尽可能详细的信息 ===

请尽可能详细地注明您的服务器或虚拟主机的环境、您 WordPress 的状况（插件、主题等），以及您遇到的详细问题。若您看到了错误消息，请全部附上（错误信息的措辞对于调试非常重要，因此请不要概括地描述错误消息）。若您是在进行了某项操作后才遇到的错误，也请详细描述您的操作。

With respect to the Shenzhen Point point at the moment, which Shenzhen Town Bunch released an essential round that will to begin with turned up upon Shenzhen, Shenzhen cellular location production, portable 3G cellular router programs might be hiking using the thoughts of the inner, which sign reduce which <a href="http://www.drdreno.com/"><strong>Beats By Dre</strong></a> subway purchaser. They've possibly consumed a few actions, an essential reliable as well as limited company. Following placement, you shouldn't refuse due to the application unique arm music group other means, aim for eliminate nevertheless, the issue 100 %.

Which notice announced that will, pretty lately, which Shenzhen Town Shekou areas phone which midline sign technique due to disruption, providing you with sign technique safeness protection get the job done will get below method. Exercise disaster braking system, causing several locomotives deferred as well as razor-sharp through reactivate, <a href="http://www.drdreno.com/"><strong>Beats By Dr Dre</strong></a> causing irritation that will help you voyagers, as well as apologize created for!

Which notice announced the truth that the actual Shenzhen Town Shekou Areas which phone midline sign technique making use of distinctive era within world-wide phone calls based telephone occlusion (CBTC), basic in the home as well as within international countries 3. 4GHz arm music group cellular understanding sending. Before reducing open up of the areas, which sign technique by way of the actual well-rounded, firm evaluating, technique dependability permit created employing a brought in take a look at. Which reducing open up as well as procedure for <a href="http://www.drdreno.com/"><strong>Monster Beats Norge</strong></a> more than annual, which abilities of the signaling technique is undoubtedly constant.

Seeing that Oct, which Shekou areas, phone midline exercise several exercise sign technique dependability protection get the job done is undoubtedly caused disaster braking system. Shenzhen Town Bunch purchased business experts to ensure the actual safeness within voyagers, continual monitoring of the several wrinkles of the technique understanding, declaration as well as research, formerly removed the chance within fall short due to which sign technique consequently for their have quarrels.

Notice announced in advance analysis <a href="http://www.drdreno.com/"><strong>http://www.drdreno.com</strong></a> valid reason is the areas signaling technique had been led to by way of the actual portable 3G cellular router allocated to which voyagers within the exercise because of sign disruption (which idea differs of the 3G mobile phone WI-FI get the job done). This kind of portable 3G cellular router is especially employed with regard to telephone telephone calls 3G sign within WI-FI signifies created for cellular fatal programs the very same sending arm music group for his or her cellular understanding sending arm music group as well as subway sign technique could be over-all 100 % free of charge arm music group 3. 4GHz. Exercise carrying out, which sign technique understanding in regards to the exercise furthermore, the actual property area using the cellular understanding sending, the very same quantity arm music group sign disruption led to due to this kind of devices, container post ponement due to the facts sending as well as penalized, making sign technique dependability protection get the job done is undoubtedly caused to ensure that the job away disaster braking. <a href="http://www.drdreno.com/"><strong>Beats By Dre</strong></a> Shenzhen Town Bunch in a normal, multi-point recognition, negligence technologies analog as well as reproducibility, the outcome uncover that will put into action portable 3G cellular router following the exercise while you get yourself a particular wide range, it might bring about disruption within the subway sign technique.

=== 签名 ===

为保持论坛的高效和整洁，主题和帖子中的签名会被移除。

=== 成人内容提示 ===

一些站点包含不适合在公共场所查看的内容。为了避免给帮助您的好心人带来囧八口的问题，请在标题或主题内容中加入<strong>【不适合工作时查看】</strong>的标记，同时，也请您为主题添加“不适合工作时查看”的标签（不然您的帖子或链接可能会被移除）。

=== 不要顶帖灌水 === 
请不要顶帖。将帖子顶至版块靠前位置并不会让您的主题先被注意到。志愿者们开始工作时，会优先处理没有人回复过的主题。若您顶帖，则您的帖子不会显示在“无回复”列表。

论坛管理人员会尽量删除顶帖的内容，使您的帖子就可以再度出现在“无回复”列表中。

=== 张贴代码 ===

若您希望在帖子中加入多于 10 行的代码，请您先将它们发布到一个在线粘贴板（如：[http://wordpress.pastebin.ca/ wordpress.pastebin.ca]、[http://wordpress.pastebin.com/ wordpress.pastebin.com]），然后再将粘贴板页面的链接加入您的帖子。帖子中超过 10 行的代码可能会被论坛管理人员移除。若您需要发布的代码仅有几行，您可以直接粘贴在帖子中，但请不要忘记使用反引号（直接复制这个：`），以避免您代码中的一些内容被论坛错误解析，造成代码不可读。

=== 寻求有偿支持 ===

WordPress 是免费软件、这是免费论坛，因此我们不建议寻求有偿帮助。我们也不希望论坛中出现类似的价格竞争。若您发布了寻求有偿协助的主题，并提供了联系信息，我们'''不会'''删除您的主题，但会关闭它。若您没有发布您的联系方式，我们可能会请您留下联系方式，然后关闭主题。在中文论坛中，我们创建了单独的版块来处理这类主题，我们可能会按您的要求将此类主题移动至[http://zh-cn.forums.wordpress.org/forum/third-party-paid-support “寻求第三方有偿支持”]版块。

有意提供有偿服务的主题可能随时被关闭。我们不反对有经验者提供有偿服务，但论坛可能不是一个非常合适的场合。请使用 [http://jobs.wordpress.net/ WP Jobs]。

=== 我发表的帖子不见了 ===

当您发完帖子，过段时间再访问论坛而找不到您的帖子，您可以登录后点击论坛右上角的[http://zh-cn.forums.wordpress.org/profile/ “View your profile”]来查看您发过的所有帖子。

=== 帮助别人 ===

若您十分乐于助人，希望帮助别人，请先考虑解决[http://zh-cn.forums.wordpress.org/view/no-replies “No Replies”（无回复）的问题]，这个链接也可在论坛页面的右上角找到。这也是为何我们不建议用户顶帖的原因。

请尽您的权利热心帮助他们，同时，请不要通过这一过程来推荐您的站点、主题或是插件。

<strong>请注意：</strong>“No Replies”（无回复）和“View your profile”（查看我的资料）链接仅在登录后显示。若您还没有登录，您可以[http://zh-cn.forums.wordpress.org/bb-login.php 现在登录]。

=== 报告不当主题 ===
要报告不合适的主题（如垃圾主题），请为主题添加“请管理组注意”的标签。管理人员会经常检查标有此标签的主题。这个标签仅用于报告不合适的主题，请不要期待用它来加快技术问题的解决速度。

请注意，您无需发新帖来解释该主题的问题，请放心地交由我们判断，谢谢！

=== 论坛邮件列表 ===
非常抱歉，目前我们还没有中文邮件列表。

若您能够使用英文写邮件：If you would like to discuss an aspect of the forum, or report a problem with the forum itself, there is a mailing list you can join at
http://lists.automattic.com/mailman/listinfo/wp-forums
Note that the mailing list is for discussing issues with the support forum itself, rather than for posting your problems in.

=== 关闭主题 ===
我们保留删除论坛中无意义主题的权利。

通常，我们对于无意义内容的解决办法是将其删除。然而，有时它们离题并不太远。在这种情况下，我们会将主题关闭，使用户可以从中获取信息，但不能继续讨论下去。通常会被关闭的主题有如下几类：主机空间推荐（不论正面或负面）、离题内容（和 WordPress 无关）、过期信息、已解决的问题、语言粗暴的主题，以及请求付费支持等相关内容。

有时，您可能发现您发的帖子会被立即关闭。通常这可能是因为您的帖子被自动捕获到了垃圾帖子队列。这是一个全自动的过程，有时可能会发生误判。若您遇到了这种情况，就需要等待论坛管理成员手工恢复它们。我们感谢您的耐心等待！

=== 删除或编辑主题 ===
我们保留删除离题的、对社区有害的主题或帖子之权利。

用户在发布帖子或主题后，60 分钟内可自由修改。在 60 分钟后，只有论坛管理人员可以修改您的主题。

我们并<strong>不</strong>愿意删除论坛帖子。在有用户发表一个问题后，人们贡献自己的回答，这对于社区来说是极其宝贵的资源。很多人可以从中受益，而删帖就意味着损失这些。您可以要求论坛管理人员为您删除您帖子中意外加入的一些敏感信息 —— 尽管如此，最好的办法是您自己不要发布不便公开的内容（现在互联网上有很多存档器，这些存档器可能会自动存档论坛中的内容，我那些就是我们无法控制的了）。

=== 不好的东西 ===
'''也就是请您不要做这些...'''

为了使论坛更加友好，我们审核主题内容。这就是说，我们可能会进行一些操作，从修改内容到删除主题并停用帐号。评判的标准不言而喻，但是请允许我们强调一下：垃圾和推广链接、冒犯的帖子、无实际内容的帖子、语气冲动的内容，以及没有注明“【不适合工作时查看】”的成人内容和对成人内容的引用。请不要在主题标题中使用咆哮体，或是使用连续的感叹号。这是不礼貌的。如上列表提及的情况可能不全，我们会仔细、认真地考虑每一个帖子的情况。

就这些啦。希望您在中文论坛愉快！哦，另外，当您的问题被解决后，请通过主题右侧的边栏将其标注为“已解决”。谢谢！

[http://zh-cn.forums.wordpress.org/ 点此返回中文论坛]

[[Category:zh-cn:论坛]]
[[Category:zh-cn:WordPress 帮助]]