{{Languages|
{{en|Weblog Client}}
{{ja|投稿ツール}}
{{pt-br|Cliente de Weblog}}
{{es|Cliente de blog}}
{{zh-cn|Weblog Client}}
}}

博客客户端是运行在个人电脑桌面上，它可以让你通过[[XML-RPC_Support|XML-RPC]]接口实现发布博客。 在有的情况下，博客客户端甚至可以管理你的博客网站。 你也可以认为博客客户端相当于Outlook Express, [http://www.mozilla.org/products/thunderbird/ Thunderbird], and Eudora Mail.  最大的亮点，客户端可以让你写博客在离线的时候，等下次上线直接发布就行。另外，依据笔者实际经验，尤其当你blog里面有多个图片的时候，使用博客客户端的体验将会非常棒。

关于通过邮件发送blog的，请参考：[[Blog by Email]].

==Advantages==

The advantages of using a weblog client include: 

# 可离线写博客
# 可保存为草稿
# 界面友好
# 美化文档特色非常棒
# 可同时处理多blog网站
# 处理blog图片非常爽
# 养成了本地保存blog备份的好习惯

==List of Client Software:==

=== Windows ===

*[http://www.blogdesk.org BlogDesk] - supports German and [http://www.blogdesk.org/en/index.htm English]
*[http://www.codingrobots.com/blogjet/ BlogJet]
*[http://webstory.my/ Chrysanth WebStory] - freeware
*[http://illumineX.com/ecto/ Ecto] - 21天免费试用
<!-- *[http://www.jblogeditor.com JBlogEditor] //no longer active -->
*[http://www.lipidr.com/ LIPIDr Blog Client] - freeware, last version: 2007
*[http://office.microsoft.com/en-us/word/ha101640211033.aspx Microsoft Word 2007]
*[http://bytescout.com/post2blog.html Post2Blog] - [http://bytescout.com/post2blog_start_with_wordpress.html detailed WordPress instructions]
*[http://qtm.blogistan.co.uk/ QTM]
*[http://www.qumana.com Qumana]
*[http://www.anconia.com/blog-software/ RocketPost]
*[http://semagic.sourceforge.net/ Semagic]
*[http://www.zoundryraven.com/ Zoundry Raven] - open source
*[http://www.wbloggar.com/ w.bloggar] - freeware, last version: 2007
*[http://www.wbeditor.com/ WB Editor]
*[http://download.live.com/writer Windows Live Writer]
*[http://code.google.com/p/wp-comments-notifier/ WordPress Comments notifier] - open source

=== Mac OS X ===

*[http://www.bitsapp.info/ Bits] — 新增！
*[http://commentsapp.co/ Comments.app] — 新增！
*[http://www.drinkbrainjuice.com/blogo Blogo] - 21天免费试用
*[http://illumineX.com/ecto/ Ecto] - 21天免费试用, seems to be buggy (Atom is completely broken)
<!-- *[http://www.jblogeditor.com JBlogEditor] //no longer active -->
<!-- *[http://journler.com/ Journler] (however [http://www.getsprouted.com/blog/2007/10/26/journler-254-beta-for-leopard-blogging-dropped-last-donationware-version/ blogging is being dropped soon] from Journler) //no longer active -->
*[http://www.marinersoftware.com/products/macjournal/ MacJournal] - 可免费试用
*[http://www.red-sweater.com/marsedit/ MarsEdit] - 30天免费试用
*[http://qtm.blogistan.co.uk/ QTM]
<!-- none of these links work
Mac OS X Dashboard Widgets

*[http://dashblog.theonelab.com/ DashBlog] - [http://wordpress.org/support/topic/34382#post-197102 detailed WordPress instructions]
*[http://staff.cofa.unsw.edu.au/blojsom/blog/nigelkersten/scripts/2005/05/01/RapidMetaBlog_Dashboard_Widget.html RapidMetaBlog]
*[http://www.paniris.com/wordpressdash/ WordPressDash] -->

=== Linux ===

*[http://blogtk.sourceforge.net/ BloGTK]
*[http://www.dropline.net/drivel/ Drivel]
*[http://www.gnome.org/~seth/gnome-blog/ Gnome Blog]
*[http://sourceforge.net/projects/gscribble/ GScribble]
*[http://code.google.com/p/wp-comments-notifier/ WordPress Comments notifier] - open source
<!-- *[http://www.jblogeditor.com JBlogEditor] //no longer active -->
*[http://qtm.blogistan.co.uk/ QTM]

=== 浏览器插件 ===
Cross-platform browser-based clients. Also check [https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/tag/blogging Firefox Add-on directory].

*[http://deepestsender.mozdev.org/ Deepest Sender] - Add-on for Firefox/SeaMonkey
*[http://www.scribefire.com/ ScribeFire] - Firefox Add-on. Formerly known as "Performancing"
*[http://www.shareaholic.com/ Shareaholic] - available for various browsers
*[http://writetomyblog.com WriteToMyBlog] - web based, IE & Firefox only.
*[http://www.zemanta.com/download/ Zemanta] - Firefox Add-on/IE Plugin/also available as a bookmarklet

=== Mobile ===

==== Android ====

*[http://code.google.com/p/postbot/ PostBot]
*[http://danroundhill.com/wptogo/ wpToGo] (merged with WordPress for Android)
*[http://android.wordpress.org/ WordPress for Android] - open source
*[http://www.kreci.net/code/wp-stats-for-android/ WP Stats] - client to access "WordPress.com Stats"

==== BlackBerry ====

*[http://blackberry.wordpress.org/ WordPress for BlackBerry] - open source
*[http://mopress.sourceforge.net/ MoPress] - open source

==== iPhone ====

*[http://blogpress.coollittlethings.com/ BlogPress]
*[http://virtuesoft.com/?p=24 BlogWriter]
*[http://iphone.wordpress.org/ WordPress for iPhone] - open source
*[http://theblogbooster.com/ BlogBooster]

==== J2ME ====

*[http://mopress.sourceforge.net/ MoPress] - open source

==== Nokia Phones ====

* [http://nokia.wordpress.org/ WordPress for Nokia] - open source, supports both Symbian S60 and Maemo
* [http://www.telewaving.com Wavelog] - commercial, Symbian S60 only
* [http://maemo-wordpy.garage.maemo.org/ MaStory] - Maemo/MeeGo only
* [http://maemo.org/packages/view/wordpress/ WordPress blogging client] - Maemo/MeeGo only

==== PalmOS ====

*[http://plogit.sourceforge.net Plogit] - open source
<!-- *[http://www.tektonica.com/moblog/ Mo:blog] - commercial // not found -->
*[http://www.thisismobility.com/blog/vagablog/ Vagablog] - open source
<!--
=== Siemens ===
*[http://www.benqmobile.com/cds/frontdoor/0,2241,hq_en_0_116696_rArNrNrNrN,00.html blog2go] // not found -->

=== Vim script ===
*[http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=2582 blogit.vim]

==Develop Your Own==

You can always [http://www.dentedreality.com.au/bloggerapi/ develop your own].  [http://directory.xmlrpc.com/services/pyraLabsblogger/scriptingGlue Many scripts] in Perl, Python, PHP, Applescript and Java have already been written and are ripe for the picking (and tweaking).  If you are planning on developing a Mac OS X Dashboard Widget, start with Apple's [http://developer.apple.com/macosx/dashboard.html very detailed documentation].

Your XML-RPC server/path are as described here: 

* If you login to WordPress on <tt><nowiki>http://example.com/wordpress/wp-login.php</nowiki></tt>, then you have:
** Server: <tt><nowiki>http://example.com/</nowiki></tt> (some tools will just want the 'example.com' hostname part)
** Path: <tt>/wordpress/xmlrpc.php</tt>
** complete URL (just in case): <tt><nowiki>http://example.com/wordpress/xmlrpc.php</nowiki></tt>


[[Category:Advanced Topics]]