{{Languages|
{{en|Plugin Resources}}
{{es|Recursos de Plugin}}
{{ja|Plugin Resources}}
{{zh-cn|插件资源集合}}
}}

__TOC__

[[Plugins]]([http://codex.wordpress.org/Plugins 插件])是用来扩展 WordPress 的工具。WordPress 设计精简，获得最多的灵活性和最少的核心代码。插件可以拒用户定制功能和特性或增加需要的细节。

这篇文章包括插件开发相关的文章列表资源

== 一般插件使用参考 ==

* [[Managing Plugins]](管理插件) - 如何寻找、安装、管理和调试插件。
* [[Plugins]](插件) - WordPress 插件列表，有许多现成的插件。
* [[Plugins/Plugin Compatibility]](插件兼容) - 插件对应WordPress的版本兼容列表。

== 插件开发基础 ==

* [[Writing a Plugin]](写一个插件) - 最好的插件开发入门。
* [[I18n for WordPress Developers]](I18n WordPress 开发者) - 如何“国际化”你的插件，一般指多国语言。i18n  n. internationalization 的缩写形式,意即在 i 和 n 之间有 18 个字母,本意是指软件的"国际化"
* [[Plugin API]] - 介绍如何使用 Hooks (Actions and Filters)(两种钩子)和在插件中重写WordPress 的functions(函数方法).
* [[Adding Administration Menus]](添加后台菜单) - 如何添加插件的后台菜单
* [[Plugin Submission and Promotion]](插件的提交和宣传) - 发布插件的一些建议
* [[Migrating Plugins and Themes]](迁移插件和样式) - 包括如何更新你的插件到对应版本的WordPress上
* [[Determining Plugin and Content Directories]]内容目录 - 说明你的插件所关联的文件或目录

外部资源:

* [http://markjaquith.wordpress.com/2006/03/04/wp-tutorial-your-first-wp-plugin/ Your First Wordpress Plugin (video demonstration)]你的第一个WordPress插件 (视频教程)
*[http://www.digitalramble.com/2006/06/06/34/ Anatomy of a new Plugin] 一个新的插件详解[http://pixline.net/2006/10/anatomia-di-un-plugin-wordpress/ (traduzione italiana)]
* [http://www.randypeterman.com/wordpress/index.php?p=597 Writing a WordPress Plugin Part I] and [http://www.randypeterman.com/wordpress/index.php?p=648 Part II]
* [http://www.rafaeldohms.com.br/2008/03/10/desenvolvendo-plugins-para-wordpress/pt/ Desenvolvendo plugins para o Wordpress (pt-br)]

== 插件开发 - 参考文章 ==

* [[Plugin API/Filter Reference]] - Reference list of filter hooks available in WordPress
* [[Plugin API/Action Reference]] - Reference list of action hooks available in WordPress
* [[Function Reference]] - Complete PHP function reference for WordPress (version 2.1, with links to previous versions)
* [http://phpdoc.wordpress.org/ WordPress.org PHPDoc] - Nearly all the functions in WordPress now have "PHPDoc" headers. This site shows all the PHPDoc.
* [[Option Reference]] - Large list of options that WordPress installs by default (version 2.3.1, no links to previous versions)
* [[Database Description]] - Description of the WordPress Database (version 2.1; has links to older version articles)
* [[Query Overview]] - Description of the WordPress query process used to find posts and display them
* [[WordPress Coding Standards]] - General information about coding standards for WordPress development
* [[WordPress Deprecated Functions Hook]] - WordPress 2.4 adds two hooks for when deprecated functions are used, here is how to use them.
* [[Shortcode API]] - A tutorial and reference for the shortcode API (new in version 2.5)
* [[Dashboard Widgets API]] - A reference with examples for adding new widgets to the admin dashboard.
* [[Settings API]] - A reference with examples for adding new settings to existing settings screens.

外部资源：

* [http://phpxref.com/xref/wordpress/ PHPXref for WordPress] - Cross reference of WordPress files, functions, and variables, which seems to point to the latest released version. [http://xref.redalt.com/ This redalt.com PHPXref site] has the bleeding-edge Trunk version, as well as 1.5 and 2.0, but the Trunk version may not be updating any more. So, there is now a [http://sandbox.ftwr.co.uk/wp/ new Trunk Xref site on ftwr.co.uk] available.
* [http://codex.wordpress.org/User:Skippy Skippy's list] of actions and filters
* [http://adambrown.info/p/wp_hooks WordPress Hooks Database], a database of all WordPress' hooks, showing which version they come from, and linking to the source code spots that use them
* [http://blog.taragana.com/index.php/archive/wordpress-2x-hooks-for-action-comprehensive-list-for-plugin-and-theme-developers/ Angsuman's list], a comprehensive listing of WordPress action hooks with documentation and source code location information. It contains all documented and undocumented action hooks in WordPress 2.0.
* [http://dd32.id.au/wordpressorg-plugin-information-api-docs/ dd32's wordpress.org/extend Plugin API information] 
* [http://xref.yoast.com/ PHP Cross Reference of the WordPress and BBPress source, using PHPXref by Joost de Valk] - also includes tutorial
* [http://www.prelovac.com/vladimir/wordpress-plugin-development-book WordPress Plugin Development] - Beginner's guide

== 插件开发 - 专题 ==

* [[Creating Admin Themes]] - How to create a Plugin that changes the look of the Admin section
* [[Creating Tables with Plugins]] - How to store your plugin's data in a new table in the WordPress database
* [[Custom Queries]] - How to implement custom queries that let a plugin control which posts are displayed and in what order
* [[AJAX in Plugins]] - How to add AJAX functionality to your plugin, in the administration screens or viewer-facing pages
* [[Creating Options Pages]] - How to easily create custom options pages and have WordPress do all the hard work for you!
* [[Modifying Options Pages]] - How to modify already existing options pages by adding options for your use on them
* [[Function Reference/add_meta_box|Using the add_meta_box() Function]] - How to add a custom section to the post editing screen, and save the data the user enters
* [[TinyMCE Custom Buttons]] - How to add functionality to the TinyMCE Visual/HTML editor for post/page content

外部资源：

* [http://markjaquith.wordpress.com/2006/06/02/wordpress-203-nonces/ Securing your plugin with nonces]
* [http://automattic.com/code/widgets/plugins/ Official WordPress Widgets page on Widgetizing plugins]
* [http://guff.szub.net/2006/04/06/my-widget-example-wordpress-widget/ Writing a Widget Plugin]
* [http://blog.slaven.net.au/archives/2007/02/01/timing-is-everything-scheduling-in-wordpress/ Using event scheduling in WordPress Plugins]
* [http://planetozh.com/projects/wordpress-functions-history/ WordPress Functions History Tool] - unofficial tool to help in finding when/if a function has been added/dropped
* [http://wp-fun.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/wp-plugins.zip WP-Fun's old blog posts and examples] - An old (2006-2008) zip with widget code
* [http://www.techlyzer.com/2008/11/creating-click-drag-options-boxes-in-wp-27/ Creating Click & Drag Options Boxes in WP 2.7] - screencast on using the [[Function_Reference/add_meta_box|add_meta_box API]]
* [http://amiworks.co.in/talk/simplified-ajax-for-wordpress-plugin-developers-using-jquery/ Simplified AJAX For WordPress Plugin Developers using Jquery]
* [http://xplus3.net/2008/10/16/jquery-and-ajax-in-wordpress-plugins-administration-pages/ jQuery and Ajax in WordPress Administration Plugins]
* [http://xplus3.net/2008/10/27/jquery-and-ajax-in-wordpress-plugins-public-pages/ jQuery and Ajax in Plugins for Public Pages]
* [http://ocaoimh.ie/2008/11/01/make-your-wordpress-plugin-talk-ajax/ Make your WordPress plugin talk AJAX] - examples on viewer-side AJAX for plugins
* [http://scribu.net/wordpress/optimal-script-loading.html How to load JavaScript like a WordPress Master] - optimal script loading, particularly for shortcodes

[[Category:Plugins]]
[[Category:Advanced Topics]]
[[Category:WordPress Development]]

{{zh-cn:Stub}}