{{Languages|
{{en|Template:Welcome}}
{{zh-cn|模板:欢迎}}
}}
= 欢迎！ =
欢迎来到 WordPress 手册!

如果你考虑供稿，请参阅一下内容：
; 欢迎来到 WordPress 手册 : We welcome you and ask you to check out the various activities going on here and how to contribute to WordPress at the [[Codex:Community_Portal|Community Portal]].
; WordPress Codex Copyright Policy : All content provided is for use under the terms of the [[GPL|GNU General Public License]]. Please be advised that you retain the copyright on your specific contributions, but by contributing you <strong>expressly agree</strong> to make your contributions available to others according to the terms of the [[GPL]].  See the Codex [[License]] for more details.
; Create a User Page : [[Codex:Creating a User Page|Creating your own User Page]] helps everyone learn more about you and your interest in helping on the WordPress Codex. This is where you can tell us what you want to do, how you want to contribute, and start a "things to do on the Codex" list.
; What You Can Do : There are [[Codex:Contributing|many things to do]], from editing pages, merging documents, and even writing new articles for the Codex. It's recommended that you read the following helpful articles and resources and then post a note about your intentions on the [http://lists.automattic.com/mailman/listinfo/wp-docs wp-docs mailing list] before you start writing.  This helps avoid duplicate efforts.

:* [[Documentation_team|WordPress Documentation Team]] - Know who is in charge and who to turn to
:* [[Codex:Guidelines|Guidelines]] - The heavenly handbook of Codex rules.
:* [[Codex:Styles|Styles]] - Documentation of the general styles of the Codex — please follow these so pages look well together.
:* [[Sandbox]] - Your experimental playground
:* [[Codex:Contributing|Contributing]] - How to help out at the Codex
:* [[Help:Editing|Editing]] - How to layout and design a Codex page
:* [[Codex:Tasks|Codex Tasks]] - Things needing to be done and sign up list

;Discussions on the Codex: Discussions on the Codex and Wp-docs mailing list are restricted to topics related to writing WordPress documentation. To post a question about information on an article in the Codex, use the Discussion Tab at the top of the article's page. To post a question to an individual Codex user, visit their User Page and post the question in their Discussion page.  Answers will be posted on your User Discussion page.  '''Sign all comments''' and discussions with four tildes (~) and it will display your name and time with a link to your User Page like this: <br/><span style="color:blue; margin-left: 5px;"><u>Fred Smith</u></span> 03:07, 10 Apr 2005 (UTC)

Again, welcome and let us know how we can help you help us on the WordPress Codex.