{{Languages|
{{en|Comment Spam}}
{{ja|コメントスパム}}
{{pt-br|Spam em Comentários}}
{{zh-cn|垃圾评论}}
}}

只要您上网，大概就不会对“垃圾邮件”陌生吧：不请自来的各种商业广告，甚至骗子消息。

那博客的“垃圾”是什么呢？就像邮件领域的垃圾邮件一样，博客界也有“垃圾评论”。与垃圾邮件稍有不同的是，这些垃圾评论者通常是为了提高他们的网站在搜索引擎的排名，通常不进行促销等活动。

{{zh-cn:Stub}}

== Comment Spam and Search Engines ==

Why on earth would a spammer target a search engine on your blog? Let's start from the beginning. Several years ago Google pioneered a search technique called [http://www.google.com/technology/ PageRank]. Basically what it does is, in addition to looking at the content of a page they index, they also look at who links to a page and what that link says. This technology is what made Google very good at returning relevant results and made it the most popular search engine today. Because their ranking system relies so heavily on PageRank people can sometimes game the system in what's called "Google Bombing."

A [[Wikipedia:Google_bomb|google bomb]] is when a large number of different websites link to a page with the same link text to influence the ranking of that page for a search term.

This brings us back to the spammers. A spammer might have a site that sells a "mydrug" and wants to be at the top of a search for "mydrug" on Google, so to create the effect of a google bomb they leave comments on hundreds or thousands of weblogs linking to their site with the link text "mydrug". They don't really care if you see it, in fact they'd rather you didn't because you would delete it, they just want the search engine to see it when they index your page.

== Fighting Comment Spam ==

[[Comment Moderation]] is very effective in addressing unwanted comments. The best defense against comment spam is just watching your comments. Under <code>Manage &rarr; Comments</code> it shows a listing of the latest comments on any post and you can quickly scan the comment activity on your site. The faster you respond to comment spam on your site, the less likely the spammers will return.

On the [[Combating Comment Spam]] page you will find a list of more proactive measures against comment spam, including links to helpful plugins.

== Stealth Spam ==

A new technique is the spammers will leave a perfectly normal-looking comment except for the commenter's URI or name. The best way to watch out for this is to visit the URIs of people who leave comments on your blog. (This is a good practice anyway.) If one looks suspicious, either delete the comment entirely or leave the comment and delete the URI.

Another way of stealth is to use a div-tag around a bundle of hundreds of links. This becomes more and more common because many software displays directly the given HTML tags and not the HTML code. To avoid this the software must "strip-out", other word: filter the HTML tags while inserting the comment into the database.

== The Good News == 

The good news is that WordPress' built-in tools and history of combatting comment spam mean that most WordPress blogs get very little spam, and when they do it's easy to address. Here's a quote from noted web author [http://molly.com Molly E. Holzschlag] about comment spam and her switch to WordPress:

<blockquote>My ISP refused to continue dealing with me because the server molly.com resided on was brought to its knees twice due to spam floods. I was spending up to two hours PER DAY to undo the spam much less post. Since switching to WP, I've had exactly five emails sent to me automagically for moderation. 3 of them were spam, 2 were just enthusiastic posts with multiple links from a reader.</blockquote>

[[Category:zh-cn:开始使用]]
[[Category:zh-cn:排除问题]]

See also : [[Troubleshooting#Comment_Spam|Troubleshooting comment spam]]