{{Languages|
{{en|Administration Screens}}
{{ja|管理パネル}}
{{pt-br|Painel de Administração}}
{{ru|Административные панели}}
{{zh-cn|管理页面}}
{{zh-tw|管理頁面}}
}}
__NOTOC__
管理面板向您打开了一扇管理您的 WordPress 站点的窗口。每个管理面板都有四个部分：标题、主导航、工作区和页脚。顶部，也就是头部标题，有着淡淡的阴影。顶端显示了您的博客的名称，并链接到您的站点的主页，若您屏蔽了搜索引擎的访问，这里还会显示“”，[[#收藏菜单|收藏夹菜单]]、链接到[[#您的用户资料|您的用户资料]]（姓名显示为您的用户名）的链接，和[[#登出|登出链接]]。略下面的内容则是[[#Screen Options|显示选项]]和[[#Help|帮助]]，只要轻轻单击一下，一个下拉菜单就会打开。

屏幕的左侧是'''主导航菜单'''，每一个管理选项都会在上面显示，供您选择。您觉得这样太宽了？在控制板和评论的下面各有一个小图标，只要点击它，导航菜单就会成为一长串小图标。再点一下，原来的画面又回来了。一个图标会显示在文字旁边，用以显示他的功能；另一个小三角形则是用来展开之用。当您轻点他时，一个下拉菜单会弹出，里面则会提供子菜单。想要关上它？再点一下小三角就行。

中间大面积的区域就是'''工作区'''。类似“添加一篇新文章”的工作都在这里完成。

最后是灰色背景的'''页脚'''，上面有前往 [http://cn.wordpress.org/ WordPress 中文站点]、[[zh-cn:Main Page|文档]]，和[http://wordpress.org/support/forum/4 反馈]的链接。'''您使用的 WordPress 版本'''也显示出来。若您的WordPress'''不是'''最新的，亦将显示“'''有新版本的WordPress 可用，请[http://wordpress.org/download/ 升级]'''”的提示。点击一下，则会跳转到[[#升级|升级页面]]。

每一个管理页面及其子页面都可以通过主导航菜单访问到。关于它们的具体内容，将在下面进行介绍。另外，[[WordPress_Screenshots|WordPress 的截图]]也会帮助您理解这些子菜单。

{| cellspacing=10 width="100%"
|- valign="top"

| bgcolor="#fff3f3" style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; color: black;" width="20%"|
[[#控制板|控制板]]
*[[#控制板|控制板]]
*[[#更新|更新]]

| bgcolor="#fff3f3" style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; color: black;" width="15%"|
[[#文章|文章]]
*[[#文章|文章]]
*[[#写文章|写文章]]
*[[#分类目录|分类目录]]
*[[#文章标签|文章标签]]

| bgcolor="#fff3f3" style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; color: black;" width="15%"|
[[#媒体库|媒体]]
*[[#媒体库|媒体]]
*[[#添加多媒体文件|添加多媒体文件]]

| bgcolor="#fff3f3" style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; color: black;" width="15%"|
[[#链接|链接]]
*[[#链接|所有链接]]
*[[#添加新链接|添加新链接]]
*[[#链接分类目录|链接分类目录]]

| bgcolor="#fff3f3" style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; color: black;" width="15%"|
[[#页面|页面]]
*[[#页面|所有页面]]
*[[#新建页面|新建页面]]

| bgcolor="#fff3f3" style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; color: black;" width="15%"|
[[#评论|评论]]
*[[评论|所有评论]]

|- valign="top"
| bgcolor="#fff3f3" style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; color: black;" width="15%"|
[[#外观|外观]]
*[[#主题|主题]]
*[[#小工具|小工具]]
*[[#菜单|菜单]]
*[[#背景|背景]]
*[[#顶部|顶部]]
*[[#主题编辑器|编辑]]

| bgcolor="#fff3f3" style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; color: black;" width="15%"|
[[#插件|插件]]
*[[#插件|插件]]
*[[#添加|安装新插件]]
*[[#插件编辑器|编辑]]

| bgcolor="#fff3f3" style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; color: black;" width="15%"|
[[#用户|用户]]
*[[#用户|用户]]
*[[#添加新用户|添加新用户]]
*[[#您的个人资料|我的个人资料]]

| bgcolor="#fff3f3" style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; color: black;" width="15%"|
[[#工具|工具]]
*[[#工具|工具]]
*[[#导入|导入]]
*[[#导出|导出]]

| bgcolor="#fff3f3" style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; color: black;" width="15%"|
[[#设置|设置]]
*[[#常规|常规]]
*[[#撰写|撰写]]
*[[#阅读|阅读]]
*[[#讨论|讨论]]
*[[#媒体|媒体]]
*[[#隐私|隐私]]
*[[#固定链接|固定链接]]

|}

<div style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; background-color: #fff3f3; margin-left: 1em; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; float: right; width: 8em;">
'''控制板'''<br />
[[zh-cn:控制板|控制板]]<br />
[[zh-cn:更新|更新]]<br />
</div>

==控制板 - 信息中心==
控制板可以告诉您，在您的博客，以及 WordPress 社区上最近发生了什么。

[[Dashboard SubPanel|控制板菜单]]可以让您快速发布一篇[[#Post|博文]]，或者给您的博客添加一个[[#Page|页面]]，以及您可以在上面快速了解博客的大事记，有几篇文章？有几篇评论？有几个[[#Categories|分类]]？有几个[[#Tags|标签]]？您都可以找到。想知道朋友们最近在您的博客上[[#Comments|评论]]了什么？控制板上的“最近评论”模块可以让你一清二楚。除外，您还可以了解到搜索引擎有没有收录您的博客，以及来自WordPress开发博客、插件博客以及WordPress的最新信息。

[[#top|回到页首]]

<div style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; background-color: #fff3f3; margin-left: 1em; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; float: right; width: 8em;">
'''文章子菜单'''<br />
[[Posts Edit SubPanel|文章]]<br />
[[Posts Add New SubPanel|添加新文章]]<br />
[[Posts Tags SubPanel|文章标签]]<br />
[[Posts Categories SubPanel|文章目录]]<br />
</div>

==文章 - 写些文字==
恭喜，你已经安装了最好的个人网络发布平台。你现在可以考虑与大家分享你的观点和想法了。

那接下来呢？

很简单，登录到管理员面板，在左边的导航菜单中，单击文章，然后选择写文章。在WordPress中具体为文章子面板下的[[zh-cn:撰写文章|写文章]]。这个面板下，你的站点将会因为有用的文章而受到追捧。你将会在这个面板下花费更多的时间，所以你更应该花少量的时间熟悉它。

[[Glossary#Post|文章]] 是博客的主要元素。文章可以是自己的随笔，某个话题的讨论，某些事件的看法，也可以是学术性的报告， 深度研究的思路等等。在多数情况下，文章是博客的基础，所谓无文章非博客!

===文章 ===

通过[[zh-cn:文章页面|文章页面]]你可以选择一篇或多篇文章进行编辑、删除或查看。对于选择的多篇文章可以批量编辑或者删除。通过批量编辑你可以同时编辑多篇文章特定区域的值（可批量编辑文章所属分类目录、文章状态、标签、作者、置顶状态、ping状态以及评论状态[译者注]）。快速编辑是一个特别方便的工具，你可以更改某一篇文章的许多区域的值。另外搜索和按条件选择可以使你更快的找到你想要编辑的文章。

===写文章===
[[zh-cn:撰写文章|写文章]]是WordPress的重要的一部分，即添加文章。当你想写些文章的时候，你可以创建一些新的目录、新的标签以及自定义字段。换而言之，你可以上传任何多媒体（图片、视频、录音及其他文件），然后插入到文章中。

===文章标签===
标签可以理解为每篇文章设置的关键字，请不要跟目录混淆了，标签是没有层级的，这意味着标签之间互相没有联系。而同目录一样，标签也是为了读者获取分类信息的渠道。

When using the WordPress Default Theme (sometimes called Kubrick, this is one of the two themes delivered with WordPress), Tags are displayed under each Post those Tags are assigned. Someone viewing your blog can click on one of those Tag links, and an archive page with all the Posts belonging to that Tag will be displayed.

The [[Posts Tags SubPanel]] allows you to add, change, or delete Tags.  Multiple Tags can be selected for deletion.  A search option allows you to find the Tags you want to edit or delete.  Also remember Tags can be added in the [[Posts Add New SubPanel]].

===文章目录===
Every Post in WordPress is filed under one or more Categories. Categories allow the classification of your Posts into groups and subgroups, thereby aiding viewers in the navigation and use of your site.

Each Category may be assigned to a Category Parent so that you may set up a hierarchy within the category structure.  Using automobiles as an example, a hierarchy might be Car->Ford->Mustang. In creating categories, recognize that each category name must be unique, regardles of hierarchy.

When using the WordPress Default Theme (sometimes called Kubrick, this is one of the two themes delivered with WordPress), Categories are shown in two different places on your blog   First, the Categories are listed as links in the Category section of your sidebar, and second, all the Categories to which a given post belongs are displayed under that post.  When someone viewing your blog clicks on one of those Category links, a archive page with all the Posts belonging to that Category will be displayed.

The [[Posts Categories SubPanel]] allows you to add, edit, and delete Categories, as well as organize your categories hierarchically.  Multiple Categories can be selected for deletion. A search option allows you to find the Categories you want to edit or delete.  Also remember Categories can be added in the [[Posts Add New SubPanel]].

[[#top|回到页首]]

<div style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; background-color: #fff3f3; margin-left: 1em; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; float: right; width: 8em;">
'''媒体'''<br />
[[Media Library SubPanel|媒体库]]<br />
[[Media Add New SubPanel|添加多媒体]]<br />
</div>

==媒体 - 在文章里添加图片或视频==
Media is the images, video, recordings, and files, you upload and use in your blog.  Media is typically uploaded and inserted into the content when writing a Post or Page.  Note that the Uploading settings in the [[Settings Miscellaneous SubPanel]] describes the location and structure of the upload directory.

===媒体库===
The [[Media Library SubPanel|媒体库]] allows you edit, delete or view Media previously uploaded to your blog.  Multiple Media objects can be selected for deletion.  Search and filtering ability is also provided to allow you to find the desired Media.

===上传新多媒体===
The [[Media Add New SubPanel|添加新多媒体]] allows you to upload new media to later use with posts and pages.  A Flash Uploader is provided and the ability to use a Browser Uploader is supplied if the Flash Uploader does not work.

[[#top|回到页首]]

<div style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; background-color: #fff3f3; margin-left: 1em; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; float: right; width: 8em;">
'''链接'''<br />
[[Links Edit SubPanel|编辑链接]]<br />
[[Links Add New SubPanel|添加新链接]]<br />
[[Links Link Categories SubPanel|链接分类目录]]<br />
</div>

==链接 - 互联网上的超级链接==
Even if you have a beautifully designed content rich blog, your site might be a dead-end if it never references all the other blogs, humor sites, search engines, sports teams, or chicken cacciatore recipies, you love so much!  Since you visit those sites all the time, then use the WordPress [[Links Add New SubPanel|Add New Link]] ability to allow your reading public to also enjoy those sites.

WordPress Links can be organized by category, have internal references about your relationship to their destinations, can be automatically associated with images, and can even be rated on a scale from zero to nine.

===编辑链接===
The [[Links Edit SubPanel]|链接] allows you to select the Links to edit or delete.  Multiple Links can be selected for deletion. Various search and filtering options allow you to find the Links you want to edit or delete.

===添加新链接===
As you might expect from its name, the [[Links Add New SubPanel|添加新链接]] handles the creation of new links. 

===链接分类目录===
Links, like Posts, can be categorized and categorizing Links aids your audience in navigation of your Links.  But Link Categories, unlike post Categories, have no hierarchy (parent/child relationship).  In creating categories, recognize that each Category name must be unique.

The [[Links Link Categories SubPanel|链接分类目录]] allows you to add, edit, and delete Link Categories, as well as organize your Link Categories hierarchically.  Multiple Link Categories can be selected for deletion. A search option allows you to find the Link Categories you want to edit or delete.  Also remember Link Categories can be added when adding or editings Links.

[[#top|回到页首]]

<div style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; background-color: #fff3f3; margin-left: 1em; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; float: right; width: 8em;">
'''页面'''<br />
[[Pages Edit SubPanel|编辑页面]]<br />
[[Pages Add New SubPanel|添加新页面]]<br />
</div>

==页面 - 你的静态内容==
A [[Glossary#Page|Page]] is another tool to add content to a WordPress site and is often used to present "static" information about the site; Pages are typically "timeless" in nature.  A good example of a Page is the information contained in "About" or "Contact" Pages.  A Page should not be confused with the time-oriented objects called Posts, nor should a WordPress Page be confused with the word "page" referring to any web page or HTML document on the Web.

Because Pages live outside of the normal blog chronology, and as such, are not displayed with the rest of your Posts, but are displayed individually.  

===所有页面===
The [[Pages Edit SubPanel|页面]] provides the necessary tools to edit, delete, and view existing Pages..  On this SubPanel you can select the Page to edit or delete. Multiple Pages can be selected for deletion and for editing.  As with Posts, a powerful bulk edit tool allows certain fields to be edited for a whole group of Pages.  A handy in-line edit tool, called Quick Edit, allows you to update many fields for an individual Page.  Various search and filtering options allow you to find the Pages you want to edit or delete.

===新建页面===
[[Pages Add New SubPanel|新建页面]] 允许你创建一个新页面.另请参见[[Pages|页面]]的文章进行深入探讨.

[[#top|回到页首]]

==评论 - 访客的反馈==
Comments are a feature of blogs which allow readers to respond to Posts. Typically readers simply provide their own thoughts regarding the [[#Content|content]] of the post, but users may also provide [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hyperlink links] to other resources, generate discussion, or simply compliment the author for a well-written post.

Comments can be controlled and regulated through the use of filters for language and content, and often times can be queued for approval before they are visible on the web site. This is useful in dealing with [[Comment Spam|comment spam]].

In the [[Comments Comments SubPanel|评论]] you can edit and delete as well as mark comments as spam.  Comments that are awaiting moderation can be marked as approved or previously approved comments can be unapproved.  Multiple comments can be selected and approved, marked as spam, unapproved, or deleted.  A section at the top of the Comments SubPanel displays the number of comments awaiting moderation and the number of approved comments.  A search box allows you to find specific comments

[[#top|回到页首]]

<div style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; background-color: #fff3f3; margin-left: 1em; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; float: right; width:8em;">
'''外观'''<br />
[[Appearance Themes SubPanel|主题]]<br />
[[Appearance Widgets SubPanel|小工具]]<br />
[[Appearance Editor SubPanel|编辑]]<br />
[[Appearance Header Image and Color SubPanel|头部图片和颜色]]
</div>

==外观 - 改变你的博客外观==
From the Presentation Administration Panel you can control how the content of your blog is displayed.  WordPress allows you to easily style your site by either installing and activating new Themes or changing existing Themes.

===主题管理===
A Theme is the overall design of a site and encompasses color, graphics, and text. A Theme is sometimes called the skin.  WordPress site-owners have available a long list of Themes to choose from in deciding what to present to their sites' viewers. In fact, with the use of the [http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/theme-switcher-reloaded Theme Switcher Reloaded Plugin], visitors can select their own Theme.

From the [[Appearance Themes SubPanel]] you can choose which Theme will be presented to user visiting your site.ou have already downloaded will be used for your site.  You can also view screenshots of each Theme you have uploaded to your site.  Note: See [[Using Themes]] for information on finding, downloading, and uploading Themes.

===小工具===
Widgets are gadgets or gizmos that allow you to add various pieces of information to your Theme's sidebar content.  Widgets, for example, can be used to add Categories, Archives, Blogroll, Recent Posts, and Recent Comments to your sidebar.  The WordPress Default 1.6 and WordPress Classic 1.5 Themes, delivered with WordPress, are both widget compatible.

From the [[Appearance Widgets SubPanel]] you can add, delete, and configure, the Widgets use in one or more of your Theme's [[Glossary#Sidebar|sidebar]].  

===编辑主题===
Use the Theme Editor to edit the various files that comprise your Themes.  The [[Appearance Editor SubPanel]] allows you to designate which theme you want to edit then displays the files in that theme.  Each file (Template and CSS) in the theme can be editted in the large text box.

For more information about the code used for [[Using Themes|Themes]], see [[Theme Development]], [[Templates]], [[Stepping Into Templates]], [[Template Hierarchy]], and the page on [[Template Tags]].

===自定义头部===
The Header Image and Color feature allows you to manage the look and feel of a Theme's header.  This option will only be present if the Theme author has configured to header to allow this capability.  For instance, the WordPress Default Theme (sometimes called Kubrick, this is one of the two themes delivered with WordPress) allows you to set the font color, the lower color (lower part of the header), the upper color, the  whole  header color.  

The [[Appearance Header Image and Color SubPanel]] describes the details of this feature. 

[[#top|回到页首]]

<div style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; background-color: #fff3f3; margin-left: 1em; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; float: right; width:8em;">
'''插件'''<br />
[[Plugins Installed SubPanel|安装插件]]<br />
[[Plugins Add New SubPanel|添加新插件]]<br />
[[Plugins Editor SubPanel|插件编辑]]
</div>

==插件 - 在博客上增加功能==
[[Plugins]] allow you to add new features to your WordPress blog that don't come standard with the default installation.  There are a rich variety of Available Plugins for WordPress, and with the following SubPanels, plugin installation and management is a snap.

===插件管理===
The [[Plugins Installed SubPanel|Plugins Installed SubPanel]] allows you to view the plugins you've downloaded and choose which plugins you want activated on your site.  For information on downloading and installing plugins, see [[Managing Plugins]].

===安装插件===
[[Plugins Add New SubPanel|添加新插件]]功能允许您添加更多新的插件.有关下载和安装插件的信息,请参阅[[Managing Plugins|管理插件]].

===编辑插件===
利用[[Plugins Editor Screen|编辑插件]]，你可以修改你的插件的所有源代码。  

[[#top|回到页首]]

<div style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; background-color: #fff3f3; margin-left: 1em; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; float: right; width: 8em;">
'''用户'''<br />
[[Users Authors and Users SubPanel|作者和用户]]<br />
[[Users Add New SubPanel|添加新用户]]<br />
[[Users Your Profile SubPanel|我的资料]]<br />
</div>

==用户 - 你的博客成员==
所有的博客一般有两个用户：'''管理员''', 这个用户在WordPress安装的时候建立；用来编辑或撰写博客的用户，用来发布文章。也许你需要更多用户，比如你想让你的博客有多个作者。If you want a person to be able to post to your blog, that person must have access to a user account; typically, every person will have her or his ''own'' user account.

Via the Users option in the main navigation menu you can set up all of the user accounts you need, as well as change user information, or delete users.

An important administrative feature here is the [[Roles and Capabilities|Roles]] feature.  Depending on their [[Roles and Capabilities|Role]], different users have different [[Roles and Capabilities#Capabilities|Capabilities]].  Briefly, a user can be assigned the following [[Roles and Capabilities|Roles]]: [[Roles and Capabilities#Administrator|Administrator]], [[Roles and Capabilities#Editor|Editor]], [[Roles and Capabilities#Author|Author]], [[Roles and Capabilities#Contributor|Contributor]], or [[Roles and Capabilities#Subscriber|Subscriber]].

You can also specify your, and others', personal information, such as name, e-mail, etc. from these User Administration Panels.

===作者和用户===
你可以使用[[Users Screen|用户管理]]来管理你的所有用户。

===添加新用户===
你可以使用[[Users Add New Screen|添加新用户]]来创建新用户。

===我的资料===
使用[[Users Your Profile Screen|我的资料]]可以修改所有关于你的用户账号的个人信息。

[[#top|回到页首]]

<div style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; background-color: #fff3f3; margin-left: 1em; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; float: right; width:8em;">
'''工具'''<br />
[[Tools Tools SubPanel|工具]]<br />
[[Tools Import SubPanel|导入]]<br />
[[Tools Export SubPanel|导出]]<br />
[[Tools Upgrade SubPanel|升级]]<br />
</div>

==工具 - 管理你的博客==
WordPress Tools provide you the ability to speed up WordPress for you local machine, import content from other sources, export you content, or to upgrade your WordPress software to a new release.

===Tools - Turbo and Press This===
The '''Turbo''' ability, introduced with [[Version_2.6|Version 2.6]], adds new features to your web browser and speeds up WordPress for the local computer user.  The [http://gears.google.com More information...] link describe the Google Gears product.

The '''Press This''' function allows quick posting and publishing through the use of a special web browser favourite. You can create a shortcut to allow use of "Press This" from the new post screen. You then activate the function when browsing by selecting the favorite from your web browser favorites list.

The [[Tools Tools SubPanel]] allows the '''Turbo''' and '''Press This''' functions to be activated.

===导入===
WordPress 支持从外部资源导入数据. 多数情况下，文章，评论，页面，分类，标签，用户都可以导入.

[[Tools Import SubPanel|导入]] 列表列出的软件中,WordPress可以导入和细分来自各个平台的数据类型结构. 另请参阅 [[Importing_Content|导入内容]]了解更多支持数据导入功能的程序列表.

===导出===
WordPress 导出功能会创建一个 XML 文件，供您保存到计算机中。我们称这种格式为 WordPress eXtended RSS 或 WXR，它包含了您的全部文章、页面、评论、自定义栏目、分类目录和标签。

[[Tools Export SubPanel|导出]]功能会引导您通过简单的步骤导出您的博客内容. 导出功能也是一个备份WordPress数据非常实用的功能.

===升级===
升级功能将允许您自动更新WordPress程序到最新的版本（有新版本更新的情况下）。

[[Tools Upgrade SubPanel|更新页面]] 给你一个简单的更新操作方法. 但需要注意的是，并不是所有的主机都能够进行成功的自动更新，如果更新失败,依然需要您参考[[Upgrading WordPress|WordPress更新提示]]进行手动更新.

[[#top|回到页首]]

<div style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; background-color: #fff3f3; margin-left: 1em; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; float: right; width:8em;">
'''设置'''<br />
[[Settings General SubPanel|常规]]<br />
[[Settings Writing SubPanel|撰写]]<br />
[[Settings Reading SubPanel|阅读]]<br />
[[Settings Discussion SubPanel|评论]]<br />
[[Settings Media SubPanel|媒体]]<br />
[[Settings Privacy SubPanel|隐私]]<br />
[[Settings Permalinks SubPanel|固定连接]]<br />
[[Settings Miscellaneous SubPanel|杂项]]<br />
</div>

==设置 - 配置设置==
You might think, "All these other things I've been doing so far at the Administration Panels have involved 'Settings'.  Are these 'Settings' any different?"  The answer would be, "Yes."  All the settings you've encountered in the other Administration Panels have dealt with very specific parts of your site, or have been of limited scope (only applying to one Category, for example).  In the Settings Administration Panel are all of the settings that define your blog as a whole: settings which determine how your site behaves, how you interact with your site, and how the rest of the world interacts with your site.

The following SubPanels control these settings. 

===常规===
The [[Settings General SubPanel]] is the default SubPanel in the [[#设置 - 配置设置|Settings Administration Panel]] and controls some of the most basic configuration settings for your site:  your site's title and location, who may register an account at your blog, and how dates and times are calculated and displayed.

===撰写===
Using the [[Settings Writing SubPanel]], you can control the interface with which you write new posts.  These settings control the size of the 'post box' in the [[Write Post SubPanel]], the default Category, the default Link Category, the default image sizes, and the optional [[Settings Writing SubPanel#Post via e-mail|Post via e-mail]] feature.

===阅读===
The settings in the [[Settings Reading SubPanel]] are few in number, but still important.  You can decide if you want [[Write_Post_SubPanel|posts]], or a "static" [[Pages|Page]], displayed as your blog's front (main) page.  You can also adjust how many posts are displayed on that main page.  In addition, you can adjust [[Glossary#Feed|syndication feed]] features to determine how the information from your site is sent to a reader's web browser or other applications.

===评论===
The [[Settings Discussion SubPanel]] allows you to control settings concerning incoming and outgoing comments, pingbacks and trackbacks.  You can also control from this SubPanel the circumstances under which your blog sends you e-mail notifying you about the goings on at your site, and you can decide if your blog should show [[Glossary#Avatar|Avatars]] and their ratings.  

===媒体===
The [[Settings Media SubPanel]] allows you to determine where images, documents, and other media files will be linked to when inserted into the body of a post and to specify the maximum dimensions in pixels to use when inserting an image into the body of a post.

===隐私===
The [[Settings Privacy SubPanel]] controls your blog visibility to search engines such as Google and Technorati. You can decide if you would like your blog to be visible to everyone, including search engines (like Google, Sphere, Technorati) and archivers. If you don't want your blog available to the search engines you can block search engines, but allow normal visitors to see your site.

===固定连接===
For a nice introduction to Permalinks, check out the [[Introduction_to_Blogging#Pretty_Permalinks|Pretty Permalinks]] section of [[Introduction to Blogging]].  But briefly, and to quote the [[Settings Permalinks SubPanel]] itself:

<blockquote>By default WordPress uses web URLs which have question marks and lots of numbers in them, however WordPress offers you the ability to create a custom URL structure for your permalinks and archives. This can improve the aesthetics, usability, and forward-compatibility of your links. </blockquote>

This [[Settings Permalinks SubPanel]] controls how that custom URI structure is defined.  For a more in depth description of the way this structure is specified, see the [[Using Permalinks]] article.

===杂项===
WordPress has so many features, that some of them defy categorization.  Features like file uploads, link tracking and support for custom "hacks" can be controlled from the [[Settings Miscellaneous SubPanel]].

[[#top|回到页首]]

==登出==

The Log Out link is found at the top right corner in the Administration Panels.  It is simply a link that will log you out from your WordPress blog.

When you log in to your blog, WordPress stores a so called "cookie" in your web browser.  This cookie allows WordPress to remember who you are; if you leave your blog's site for a while but come back to it later, WordPress will see the cookie and not require you to log in again.

However, the cookie cannot tell WordPress ''who'' is using the WordPress;  in other words, WordPress has no way of looking back at you through your monitor to determine if you are really you.  If you have a WordPress cookie set in your web browser, anyone using your computer can access the Administration Panels of your blog.  If you ''don't'' want this to happen (perhaps you are using a public computer or a computer which other people use), you can click this '''Log Out''' link, and WordPress will delete the cookie from your web browser.

You can, of course, log in at some later time.

==常用菜单==
The Favorites Menu in '''the header''' is provided to give quick access to the most used WordPress functions.  Those options include, New Post, Drafts, New Page, Upload, and Comments.

==显示选项==
Screen Options, displayed as a hanging tab under '''the header''', allow the user to decide what fields or modules are presented in the '''work area''' for a given function.  Each SubPanel may have a different set of Screen Options.  

Click on the Screen Options tab to expand the options available for a particular SubPanel, check (or uncheck) the desired options, then click the Screen Options hanging tab to collapse the Screen Options.

==帮助==
Contextual '''Help''', displayed as a hanging tab under '''the header''', displays one or more Help items that are related to the SubPanel that is displayed in the '''work area'''.  

Click on the Help tab to expand the Help available for a particular SubPanel, then click the Help hanging tab to collapse the Help display.

[[#top|回到页首]]

[[Category:zh-cn:管理页面]]
[[Category:zh-cn:开始使用]]

{{zh-cn:Stub}}