{{Languages|
{{en|Developer Documentation}}
{{es|Developer Documentation}}
{{it|Documentazione per sviluppatori}}
{{ko|Developer Documentation}}
{{ru|Документация для разработчика}}
{{zh-cn|开发者文档}}
{{zh-tw|開發文件}}
}}

== 简介 ==

WordPress 是一套具备快速、轻量、容易使用等特点的开源程序。为了保持这样的特性， [[Core Team|开发团队]] 会谨慎对待将新功能添加到 WordPress 核心代码中。然而，用户经常会需要将更多的功能添加到 WordPress 中来满足他们的需求。这个开发文档为任何希望修改、扩展或贡献 WordPress 的开发者提供指南和参考。


你可以在此查阅开发过程中遇到的的常见问题 [[FAQ Developer Documentation|开发文档 FQA]]

<div style="clear: both;"></div>

<div style="margin:5px; padding:5px; border:2px solid #F22; text-align:center;">
<div style="color:#F55; font-size:110%; font-weight:bold;">注意: 文档阅读前提</div>

下列文档将会默认您已经具备相关的编程基础，而不对文中的编程术语作详细解释。</div>

尽管 WordPress 的版本发布仅由几个核心程序员进行，然而每个 WordPress 用户都可以修改 WordPress 源代码，从而使得 WordPress 能够满足高度的个性化需求。

== 插件开发 ==

* [https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/ 插件开发手册] - The '''best''' starting place for learning about how to develop plugins
* [https://make.wordpress.org/core/handbook/best-practices/coding-standards/ WordPress Coding Standards] - General information about coding standards for WordPress development
* [[Debugging in WordPress]] - Reference and guide for using the built-in debugging system in WordPress.
* [[Data Validation]] - A '''must-read''' for WordPress plugin authors.  Describes the functions used by WordPress to validate and sanitize data.  Plugin authors should be familiar with these functions and ideas.
* [[Plugin Submission and Promotion]] - Once you have written your plugin, here are some hints on distributing it widely
* [[Migrating Plugins and Themes]] - Contains information on how to upgrade your Plugin so it will work from version to version of WordPress
* [https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/ Function Reference] - Complete PHP function reference for WordPress
* [[Global Variables]] - A list of all global variables created by WordPress
* [[Post Types]] - Creating new types of posts other than the posts that display on the main loop.
* [[Taxonomies]] - Creating new types of taxonomies other than the built-in ones.
* [[Reserved Terms]] - A list of reserved terms in WordPress.

== APIs ==
* [[Plugin API]] - Hooks, Actions, and Filters to use in your Plugins (version 2.1; has links to older version articles)
* [https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/shortcodes/ Shortcode API] - A tutorial and reference for the shortcode API (new in version 2.5)
* [[Dashboard Widgets API]] - A reference with examples for adding new widgets to the admin dashboard.
* [https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/settings/ Settings API] - A reference with examples for adding new settings to existing settings screens.
* [https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/settings/ Options API] - Details about the generic option storage system. 
* [[Transients API]] - Details about the temporary/time-constrained data storage system.
* [[Widgets API]] - A reference with examples for creating widgets for use in sidebars.
* [[Quicktags API]] - A reference for adding buttons to the HTML editor.
* [[Rewrite API]] - Details about the URL rewriting API.
* [https://developer.wordpress.org/themes/ Theme Customization API] - Details about the API for Theme Customization screen.
* [[Filesystem API]] - Reference for reading and writing local files to the filesystem to be done securely, on a variety of host types.

== 贡献 WordPress ==

* [https://make.wordpress.org/ Contributing to WordPress] - Main starting point if you would like to contribute to core WordPress development, documentation, support, translations, or financial health
* [https://make.wordpress.org/core/handbook/testing/automated-testing/ Automated Testing] - Testing WordPress using the automated test suite and how to use the tools and write test cases.
* [[Release Philosophy]] - The philosophy of WordPress releases.

== 论坛、博客、邮件列表 ==

* [[Mailing Lists]] - WordPress mailing lists are for programmers, documentation, and development
* [[IRC]] - WordPress IRC channels
* http://wordpress.org/support - WordPress Support Forums
* http://wordpress.org/development - WordPress Development Blog
* http://planet.wordpress.org - Aggregate of many blogs discussing WordPress (official)
* http://planetwordpress.planetozh.com/ - Another aggregate of many blogs discussing WordPress mostly plugins and themes (unofficial)

== 其它有趣的内容 ==

* [[Advanced Topics]] - Annotated list of many articles on advanced WordPress topics
* [[Query Overview]] - Description of the WordPress query process used to find posts and display them
* [[Reporting Bugs]] - Information on reporting and fixing WordPress bugs
* [[Using Subversion]] - Introduction to SVN, the source code repository used by WordPress
* [[Development Team]] - The members of the development team.

=== 相关资料 ===
* [http://www.php.net/manual/en PHP Manual]
* [http://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql/en/index.html MySQL Manual]
* [http://subversion.apache.org/ Subversion Home Page]

{{toclist}}
[[Category:Advanced Topics]]
[[Category:WordPress Development]]
[[Category:UI Link]]