{{Languages|
{{en|WordPress Site Reviews}}
{{zh-tw|WordPress的網站評論}}
}}

為了幫助你與你的WordPress網站，WordPress支持論壇提供了一個部分叫[http://wordpress.org/support/forum/11你的 WordPress的評論] 和[http://www.wordpress.org/support批評的WordPress]的網站。文章在這個論壇不顯示在"最新文章"在頭版以避免分心從人們尋找支持。'''要求提供評論你的WordPress以外的部分可能不進行審查。'''

提交您的網站在'''你的WordPress'''節的論壇，你正將權限給志願者論壇成員和審稿人訪問您的網站和評論的設計和使用的WordPress。

其中一些志願者專家在網頁設計和編程。有的不是很經驗豐富，但他們樂於幫助別人發展自己的WordPress網站。沒有支付任何薪水。所有的志願者，這樣做是因為他們想幫助和回饋 WordPress的社區。他們會說好話，還是不行，他們通常會提供建議改善。

如果你想讓你的網站審查，請查看以下信息。

=是你自己要求的=
當您的網站張貼在[http://wordpress.org/support/forum/11 你的WordPress] 的WordPress論壇部分時，你是正在邀請你的評審和審查你WordPress網站的人。如果你想要或需要的反饋不是很具體，那麼評審將盡量照他們所看見的仁慈或嚴苛。如果你問它，你會得到它。

請記住，沒有一個是個人的意見。這些意見不是反應你有或缺乏，設計或開發的網站或網頁的能力。他們是是有建設性的，內容詳實，且在一些可能的情況很有幫助。

如果你是[[Getting_Started_with_WordPress#WordPress_for_Beginners|新使用WordPress]]，[[Glossary#PHP|PHP]]，[[Glossary#CSS|CSS]]和[[Glossary#HTML|HTML]]，然後說某某評審會多了幾分溫柔，樂於助人，導致您通過程序固定的問題和進行更改。如果你希望有一個非常關鍵的審查您的網站，這樣說。評審會“讓你有它，”好還是壞，都在試圖幫助您改善您的網站。

'''審稿將檢查以下內容：'''
* 整體表現
* 使用顏色和圖形
* 網站導航
* 使用WordPress的功能，工具和插件
* 驗證碼

審稿人不會將您的網站與其他網站相"評分"。他們不會評論內容或編輯材料，所以不要問這樣的評價。如果他們覺得偏頗，他們將直接發布一份說明在您的網站或寄電子郵件給你。

一個 WordPress論壇審稿會盡力給你一個客觀的角度對您的網站。他們提供的信息通常會遵循Web標準和WordPress做法。他們可能會增加他們的個人喜好有關意見對顏色，字體，使用圖像和等，但這些都是他們的意見。

志願者審閱各盡其能講真話，幫助您改善您的網站或慶祝它。你可以把他們的建議與否，取決於你。只要記住，你問它。

Reviewers will not "rate" your site compared to other sites.  They will not comment on content or editorial material, so do not ask for such reviews.  If they feel inclined, they will post a note directly on your site or via email to you.

A WordPress Forum Reviewer will do their best to give you an objective perspective on your site. The information they provide will usually follow web standards and WordPress practices. They might add comments about their personal preferences for colors, fonts, use of images, and such, but these are their opinions.

The volunteer reviewers do their best to speak the truth and help you improve your site or celebrate it.  You can take their recommendations or not, it is up to you.  Just remember, you asked for it.

=Review Criteria=
Any site powered by WordPress is eligible to be reviewed.

To have your site reviewed and critiqued, post a link and a description of your site's purpose and what you want and expect for a review. Detail if you want a soft or harsh review.

List the URL (link) to the site as a complete clickable link. You can write the link in a full HTML anchor on the forum like these:

<pre><nowiki>&lt;a href="http://example.com/wordpress/index.php">Title of Website&lt;/a></nowiki>


<nowiki>&lt;a href="http://example.com/wordpress/index.php">http://example.com/wordpress/index.php&lt;/a></nowiki>


<nowiki>http://example.com/wordpress/index.php</nowiki></pre>

'''Note:''' The last example must have a space before and after it to show up as a link. Do not put it in quotes or parentheses. You can put it on its own line to make sure it will turn into a link.

Sites that are reviewed tend to be categorized into two areas: '''blogs''' and '''websites'''. Please indicate which category your site falls into so reviewers can report back with a review that more closely aligns itself to your site's category.

;Blog :A '''blog''' is a personal reflection of the blogger's interests and topics.  Reviewers may comment on how they perceive the Theme and use of WordPress features reflect the personality of the site and blogger.
;Website :A '''website''' is a site typically dedicated to a purpose or function, and it might be personal or commercial. Reviewers may comment on how they perceive the site's Theme and layout to reflect the products or content.

We do ask that if your site has adult or content that might be offensive, tell us.  You will still get reviewed, it just helps to provide people with a little warning.

=Responsibilities of the Reviewers=
To be sure we are playing fair and nice when reviewing WordPress sites for the Forum, the following are the guidelines for reviewing sites:

# Reviews will be fair and non-personal.
# Play nice or do not play.
# If you do not like the content or purpose of the site, refrain from reviewing it.
# Review only presentation and use of WordPress.  Save comments on editorial content for the comment sections on that site, not on the WordPress Forums.
# Personal bias and preferences on design elements may be mentioned, but state that this is your opinion, not a web standard.
# Statements will be practical, helpful, and encourage good web practices.
# When referencing a specific problem or resource, be as specific as possible and use links to the problem or resource.
# If the site has a problem beyond the scope of the '''Your WordPress''' section, refer them to the '''Support''' sections for posting a question on the specific problem.
# Remember, all reviews, critics, and comments are the responsibility of the reviewer and not WordPress nor its representatives.

=Review Procedure=
Everyone has their method for reviewing a site.  Some only look at the surface presentation of the site and rarely delve deep within a site's depths to see all the pages and posts.  Others will look at the site's use of presentation styles, dig into the code to check it, and give a more detailed review.  Be sure and ask for the depth of review you need when requesting a review of your site.  

To help you understand what reviewers look for when reviewing a WordPress site, here is a checklist.

;Access : How long does the site take to load? What comes up first? Are wait times long because of large graphics or links to external references like graphics off-site?  Extremely long load times will often result in a site not being reviewed.
;Overall Presentation : While WordPress comes with two [[Using Themes|Themes]], reviewers want to see what you have done beyond the core Themes.  They are looking for [[Developing_a_Colour_Scheme|use of color]] and graphics, then layout and navigation.  Do the colors match or contrast in a way to accentuate the content and purpose of the site?  Are they overwhelming or hard to read or easy on the eye? Are the navigation areas easy to find? Is the purpose of the site clearly visible to the eye?
; Site Architecture : Does the site make use of CSS layout and presentation?  Is it in tables, frames, or iframes, or other non-standard web structures? In general, these are considered bad design form, but they might work for your site and reviewers will comment on their usage, good or bad. Does the sidebar overlap or is too close to the content? Is the footer a great distance from the rest of the content. All site architecture will be inspected and commented on if it is either not working or looks "uncomfortable."
;Site Purpose : While not critical to the review, visitors look for clues to the purpose of a site.  This is often reflected in the layout and design elements, use of color and graphics, and clear titles and explanations.  Reviewers will look for these elements, too.
;The Header :The header is a very important part of a site. It provides immediate information about the site and its purpose.  It can be done through the use of words, color and graphics.  If the header lacks definitive style and information, the reviewers will let you know immediately.
;Navigation :[[Good_Navigation_Links|Navigation elements]] for a site are often found within the sidebar of a web page, but they may also be within the header and footer.  Reviewers will hunt for these and look at how the information is laid out, and how navigation works through your site.  This includes clear use of [[Pages]], [[Category_Templates|Categories]], [[Creating_an_Archive_Index|Archives]], Calendar, and other navigational tools.
;Use of Color and Images : As part of the overall presentation of a site, reviewers will look at the [[Developing_a_Colour_Scheme|use of color]] and images within the site.  This includes the use of these in the header, sidebar, footer, content, and titles. It also includes the use of color and graphics in the background of the overall site and individual sections like the sidebar and header.  Is the font readable against the graphics or photographs? Do these colors and images overwhelm or enhance the site?
; Fonts and Text Size : Small fonts are one of the most complained about elements on many sites. Make sure [[Playing_With_Fonts|fonts are readable]] and have enough of a color contrast between the background color and text color. White text on a black background is fine as long as the text is large enough and "thick" enough to be seen against the black background. Gray text on a black background may look good in theory, but is very hard to see.  Same as pink on red, or green on blue. Since people tend to look at the words on a site from the moment of their arrival, the readability of the fonts counts.
; WordPress Tags and Templates : As the reviewer moves around your site and inspects the navigation, they are also looking at how WordPress is used to display your site's content and information.  Are you using [[Template Tags|template tags]] to list your categories or the drop-down menu tags? How are you using the [[The Loop|WordPress PHP Loop]] within your site to change how content is generated? Does the sidebar change when visiting the single post or category pages? Do other elements within the [[Templates|template files]] change as the reviewer move around the site, displaying information unique to each web page? Are the search, category, or archive pages unique and different from the rest? WordPress has a lot of powerful features and [[Conditional Tags|conditional tags]] that generate different information as well as different looks depending upon the request and serious reviewers are looking for such usage.
; WordPress Plugins : Reviews often recognize the use of [[Plugins|popular plugins]] and tools and may comment on usage of these add-on features, especially if the usage is distinctive. If there are too many plugins cluttering things up, or problems with the plugins, they will also point these out.
; Cross-Browser Inspections :Typically, the '''Themes and Templates Support''' section handles issues with browsers on website design and layout, but some dedicated reviewers may inspect your site in various browsers to help you out.  If you would like this service, ask. 
; Code Validation : Every web page generated by WordPress is based upon two core files: [[Templates|template files]] and the [[CSS|style sheet]].  There can be one or many different template files and one or more style sheets, and all of this code needs to be checked for errors.  Many reviewers will run your site's pages through a [[Validating_a_Website|validator]] to check for HTML and XHTML errors and errors within your style sheet or CSS. These checks help you know if your site meets the web standards, and it also helps to clean up errors and prevent bigger ones from occurring.  Part of having a solid website is having solid code and reviewers will inspect it for you and report on errors and ways to fix it, if they can.

=Say Thank You=
WordPress volunteers on the Forum offer this service for free.  Their goal is to help you create the best WordPress site you can.  They take time out from their own busy schedules and WordPress sites to help.  Be sure and take a few minutes of your time to show your appreciation and say thanks.

And from the lessons you learn from your own review, you will start paying attention to other sites and how they work, and soon you can show your appreciation to the WordPress Community by reviewing other people's WordPress sites.

{{Copyedit}}
[[Category:Design and Layout]]
[[Category:WordPress Development]]