{{Languages|
{{en|Administration Screens}}
{{ja|管理パネル}}
{{pt-br|Painel de Administração}}
{{ru|Административные панели}}
{{zh-cn|管理页面}}
{{zh-tw|管理頁面}}
}}

__NOTOC__
管理面板向您打開了一扇管理您的 WordPress 站點的窗口。每個管理面板都有四個部分：標題、主導航、工作區和頁腳。頂部，也就是頭部標題，有著淡淡的陰影。頂端顯示了您的博客的名稱，並鏈接到您的站點的主頁，若您屏蔽了搜索引擎的訪問，這裡還會顯示“”，[[#收藏菜單|收藏夾菜單]]、鏈接到[[#您的用戶資料|您的用戶資料]]（姓名顯示為您的用戶名）的鏈接，和[[#登出|登出鏈接]]。略下面的內容則是[[#Screen Options|顯示選項]]和[[#Help|幫助]]，只要輕輕單擊一下，一個下拉菜單就會打開。

屏幕的左側是'''主導航菜單'''，每一個管理選項都會在上面顯示，供您選擇。您覺得這樣太寬了？在控制板和評論的下面各有一個小圖標，只要點擊它，導航菜單就會成為一長串小圖標。再點一下，原來的畫面又回來了。一個圖標會顯示在文字旁邊，用以顯示他的功能；另一個小三角形則是用來展開之用。當您輕點他時，一個下拉菜單會彈出，裡面則會提供子菜單。想要關上它？再點一下小三角就行。

中間大面積的區域就是'''工作區'''。類似“添加一篇新文章”的工作都在這裡完成。

最後是灰色背景的'''頁腳'''，上面有前往 [http://cn.wordpress.org/ WordPress 中文站點]、[[zh-cn:Main Page|文檔]]，和[http://wordpress.org/support/forum/4 反饋]的鏈接。'''您使用的 WordPress 版本'''也顯示出來。若您的WordPress'''不是'''最新的，亦將顯示“'''有新版本的WordPress 可用，請[http://wordpress.org/download/ 升級]'''”的提示。點擊一下，則會跳轉到[[#升級|升級頁面]]。

每一個管理頁面及其子頁面都可以通過主導航菜單訪問到。關於它們的具體內容，將在下面進行介紹。另外，[[WordPress_Screenshots|WordPress 的截圖]]也會幫助您理解這些子菜單。

{| cellspacing=10 width="100%"
|- valign="top"

| bgcolor="#fff3f3" style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; color: black;" width="20%"|
[[#控制板|控制板]]
*[[#控制板|控制板]]
*[[#更新|更新]]

| bgcolor="#fff3f3" style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; color: black;" width="15%"|
[[#文章|文章]]
*[[#文章|文章]]
*[[#寫文章|寫文章]]
*[[#分類目錄|分類目錄]]
*[[#文章標簽|文章標簽]]

| bgcolor="#fff3f3" style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; color: black;" width="15%"|
[[#媒體庫|媒體]]
*[[#媒體庫|媒體]]
*[[#添加多媒體文件|添加多媒體文件]]

| bgcolor="#fff3f3" style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; color: black;" width="15%"|
[[#鏈接|鏈接]]
*[[#鏈接|所有鏈接]]
*[[#添加新鏈接|添加新鏈接]]
*[[#鏈接分類目錄|鏈接分類目錄]]

| bgcolor="#fff3f3" style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; color: black;" width="15%"|
[[#頁面|頁面]]
*[[#頁面|所有頁面]]
*[[#新建頁面|新建頁面]]

| bgcolor="#fff3f3" style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; color: black;" width="15%"|
[[#評論|評論]]
*[[評論|所有評論]]

|- valign="top"
| bgcolor="#fff3f3" style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; color: black;" width="15%"|
[[#外觀|外觀]]
*[[#主題|主題]]
*[[#小工具|小工具]]
*[[#菜單|菜單]]
*[[#背景|背景]]
*[[#頂部|頂部]]
*[[#主題編輯器|編輯]]

| bgcolor="#fff3f3" style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; color: black;" width="15%"|
[[#插件|插件]]
*[[#插件|插件]]
*[[#添加|安裝新插件]]
*[[#插件編輯器|編輯]]

| bgcolor="#fff3f3" style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; color: black;" width="15%"|
[[#用戶|用戶]]
*[[#用戶|用戶]]
*[[#添加新用戶|添加新用戶]]
*[[#您的個人資料|我的個人資料]]

| bgcolor="#fff3f3" style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; color: black;" width="15%"|
[[#工具|工具]]
*[[#工具|工具]]
*[[#導入|導入]]
*[[#導出|導出]]

| bgcolor="#fff3f3" style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; color: black;" width="15%"|
[[#設置|設置]]
*[[#常規|常規]]
*[[#撰寫|撰寫]]
*[[#閱讀|閱讀]]
*[[#討論|討論]]
*[[#媒體|媒體]]
*[[#隱私|隱私]]
*[[#固定鏈接|固定鏈接]]

|}

<div style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; background-color: #fff3f3; margin-left: 1em; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; float: right; width: 8em;">
'''控制板'''<br />
[[zh-cn:控制板|控制板]]<br />
[[zh-cn:更新|更新]]<br />
</div>

==控制板 - 信息中心==
控制板可以告訴您，在您的博客，以及 WordPress 社區上最近發生了什麼。

[[Dashboard SubPanel|控制板菜單]]可以讓您快速發布一篇[[#Post|博文]]，或者給您的博客添加一個[[#Page|頁面]]，以及您可以在上面快速了解博客的大事記，有幾篇文章？有幾篇評論？有幾個[[#Categories|分類]]？有幾個[[#Tags|標簽]]？您都可以找到。想知道朋友們最近在您的博客上[[#Comments|評論]]了什麼？控制板上的“最近評論”模塊可以讓你一清二楚。除外，您還可以了解到搜索引擎有沒有收錄您的博客，以及來自WordPress開發博客、插件博客以及WordPress的最新信息。

[[#top|回到頁首]]

<div style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; background-color: #fff3f3; margin-left: 1em; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; float: right; width: 8em;">
'''文章子菜單'''<br />
[[Posts Edit SubPanel|文章]]<br />
[[Posts Add New SubPanel|添加新文章]]<br />
[[Posts Tags SubPanel|文章標簽]]<br />
[[Posts Categories SubPanel|文章目錄]]<br />
</div>

==文章 - 寫些文字==
Well, you've done it! You've successfully installed the best personal publishing tool on the internet. You're ready to start sharing your thoughts and ideas with the world.

Now what?

Simple. You login to your admin panel, and in the navigation menu on the left, click on Posts, and then Add New. WordPress displays the [[Posts Add New SubPanel|Add New Post SubPanel]].  This panel allows you to populate your site with actual information!  You'll be spending most of your administration time here, so you should spend a bit of time familiarizing yourself with it.

[[Glossary#Post|Posts]] are the principal element (or [[Glossary#Content|content]]) of a blog.  The Posts are the writings, compositions, discussions, discourses, musings, and, yes, the rantings, of a blog owner and contributors.  Posts, in most cases, are the reason a blog exists; without Posts, there is no blog!

===文章 ===
Via the [[Posts Edit SubPanel]] you can select the Post or Posts you wish to edit, delete, or view.  Multiple Posts can be selected for deletion and for editing.  A powerful bulk edit feature allows you to change certains fields, en masse, for a group of Posts.  A handy in-line edit tool, called Quick Edit, allows you to update many fields for an individual Post.  Various search and filtering options allow you to find the Posts you want to edit or delete.

===添加新文章===
The most important part of WordPress, the [[Posts Add New SubPanel]] is where you write new Posts.  While you are writing those Posts, you can also create new Categories, new Tags, and new Custom Fields.  In addition, any Media (pictures, video, recordings, files) can be uploaded and inserted into the Posts.

===文章標簽===
Tags are the keywords you might assign to each post.  Not to be confused with Categories, Tags have no hierarchy, meaning there's no relationship from one Tag to another.  But like Categories, Tags provide another means to aid your readers in accessing information on your blog.

When using the WordPress Default Theme (sometimes called Kubrick, this is one of the two themes delivered with WordPress), Tags are displayed under each Post those Tags are assigned. Someone viewing your blog can click on one of those Tag links, and an archive page with all the Posts belonging to that Tag will be displayed.

The [[Posts Tags SubPanel]] allows you to add, change, or delete Tags.  Multiple Tags can be selected for deletion.  A search option allows you to find the Tags you want to edit or delete.  Also remember Tags can be added in the [[Posts Add New SubPanel]].

===文章目錄===
Every Post in WordPress is filed under one or more Categories. Categories allow the classification of your Posts into groups and subgroups, thereby aiding viewers in the navigation and use of your site.

Each Category may be assigned to a Category Parent so that you may set up a hierarchy within the category structure.  Using automobiles as an example, a hierarchy might be Car->Ford->Mustang. In creating categories, recognize that each category name must be unique, regardles of hierarchy.

When using the WordPress Default Theme (sometimes called Kubrick, this is one of the two themes delivered with WordPress), Categories are shown in two different places on your blog   First, the Categories are listed as links in the Category section of your sidebar, and second, all the Categories to which a given post belongs are displayed under that post.  When someone viewing your blog clicks on one of those Category links, a archive page with all the Posts belonging to that Category will be displayed.

The [[Posts Categories SubPanel]] allows you to add, edit, and delete Categories, as well as organize your categories hierarchically.  Multiple Categories can be selected for deletion. A search option allows you to find the Categories you want to edit or delete.  Also remember Categories can be added in the [[Posts Add New SubPanel]].

[[#top|回到頁首]]

<div style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; background-color: #fff3f3; margin-left: 1em; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; float: right; width: 8em;">
'''媒體'''<br />
[[Media Library SubPanel|媒體庫]]<br />
[[Media Add New SubPanel|添加多媒體]]<br />
</div>

==媒體 - 在文章裡添加圖片或視頻==
Media is the images, video, recordings, and files, you upload and use in your blog.  Media is typically uploaded and inserted into the content when writing a Post or Page.  Note that the Uploading settings in the [[Settings Miscellaneous SubPanel]] describes the location and structure of the upload directory.

===媒體庫===
The [[Media Library SubPanel|媒體庫]] allows you edit, delete or view Media previously uploaded to your blog.  Multiple Media objects can be selected for deletion.  Search and filtering ability is also provided to allow you to find the desired Media.

===上傳新多媒體===
The [[Media Add New SubPanel|添加新多媒體]] allows you to upload new media to later use with posts and pages.  A Flash Uploader is provided and the ability to use a Browser Uploader is supplied if the Flash Uploader does not work.

[[#top|回到頁首]]

<div style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; background-color: #fff3f3; margin-left: 1em; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; float: right; width: 8em;">
'''鏈接'''<br />
[[Links Edit SubPanel|編輯鏈接]]<br />
[[Links Add New SubPanel|添加新鏈接]]<br />
[[Links Link Categories SubPanel|鏈接分類目錄]]<br />
</div>

==鏈接 - 互聯網上的超級鏈接==
Even if you have a beautifully designed content rich blog, your site might be a dead-end if it never references all the other blogs, humor sites, search engines, sports teams, or chicken cacciatore recipies, you love so much!  Since you visit those sites all the time, then use the WordPress [[Links Add New SubPanel|Add New Link]] ability to allow your reading public to also enjoy those sites.

WordPress Links can be organized by category, have internal references about your relationship to their destinations, can be automatically associated with images, and can even be rated on a scale from zero to nine.

===編輯鏈接===
The [[Links Edit SubPanel]|鏈接] allows you to select the Links to edit or delete.  Multiple Links can be selected for deletion. Various search and filtering options allow you to find the Links you want to edit or delete.

===添加新鏈接===
As you might expect from its name, the [[Links Add New SubPanel|添加新鏈接]] handles the creation of new links. 

===鏈接分類目錄===
Links, like Posts, can be categorized and categorizing Links aids your audience in navigation of your Links.  But Link Categories, unlike post Categories, have no hierarchy (parent/child relationship).  In creating categories, recognize that each Category name must be unique.

The [[Links Link Categories SubPanel|鏈接分類目錄]] allows you to add, edit, and delete Link Categories, as well as organize your Link Categories hierarchically.  Multiple Link Categories can be selected for deletion. A search option allows you to find the Link Categories you want to edit or delete.  Also remember Link Categories can be added when adding or editings Links.

[[#top|回到頁首]]

<div style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; background-color: #fff3f3; margin-left: 1em; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; float: right; width: 8em;">
'''頁面'''<br />
[[Pages Edit SubPanel|編輯頁面]]<br />
[[Pages Add New SubPanel|添加新頁面]]<br />
</div>

==頁面 - 你的靜態內容==
A [[Glossary#Page|Page]] is another tool to add content to a WordPress site and is often used to present "static" information about the site; Pages are typically "timeless" in nature.  A good example of a Page is the information contained in "About" or "Contact" Pages.  A Page should not be confused with the time-oriented objects called Posts, nor should a WordPress Page be confused with the word "page" referring to any web page or HTML document on the Web.

Because Pages live outside of the normal blog chronology, and as such, are not displayed with the rest of your Posts, but are displayed individually.  

===所有頁面===
The [[Pages Edit SubPanel|頁面]] provides the necessary tools to edit, delete, and view existing Pages..  On this SubPanel you can select the Page to edit or delete. Multiple Pages can be selected for deletion and for editing.  As with Posts, a powerful bulk edit tool allows certain fields to be edited for a whole group of Pages.  A handy in-line edit tool, called Quick Edit, allows you to update many fields for an individual Page.  Various search and filtering options allow you to find the Pages you want to edit or delete.

===新建頁面===
[[Pages Add New SubPanel|新建頁面]] 允許你創建一個新頁面.另請參見[[Pages|頁面]]的文章進行深入探討.

[[#top|回到頁首]]

==評論 - 訪客的反饋==
Comments are a feature of blogs which allow readers to respond to Posts. Typically readers simply provide their own thoughts regarding the [[#Content|content]] of the post, but users may also provide [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hyperlink links] to other resources, generate discussion, or simply compliment the author for a well-written post.

Comments can be controlled and regulated through the use of filters for language and content, and often times can be queued for approval before they are visible on the web site. This is useful in dealing with [[Comment Spam|comment spam]].

In the [[Comments Comments SubPanel|評論]] you can edit and delete as well as mark comments as spam.  Comments that are awaiting moderation can be marked as approved or previously approved comments can be unapproved.  Multiple comments can be selected and approved, marked as spam, unapproved, or deleted.  A section at the top of the Comments SubPanel displays the number of comments awaiting moderation and the number of approved comments.  A search box allows you to find specific comments

[[#top|回到頁首]]

<div style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; background-color: #fff3f3; margin-left: 1em; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; float: right; width:8em;">
'''外觀'''<br />
[[Appearance Themes SubPanel|主題]]<br />
[[Appearance Widgets SubPanel|小工具]]<br />
[[Appearance Editor SubPanel|編輯]]<br />
[[Appearance Header Image and Color SubPanel|頭部圖片和顏色]]
</div>

==外觀 - 改變你的博客外觀==
From the Presentation Administration Panel you can control how the content of your blog is displayed.  WordPress allows you to easily style your site by either installing and activating new Themes or changing existing Themes.

===主題管理===
A Theme is the overall design of a site and encompasses color, graphics, and text. A Theme is sometimes called the skin.  WordPress site-owners have available a long list of Themes to choose from in deciding what to present to their sites' viewers. In fact, with the use of the [http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/theme-switcher-reloaded Theme Switcher Reloaded Plugin], visitors can select their own Theme.

From the [[Appearance Themes SubPanel]] you can choose which Theme will be presented to user visiting your site.ou have already downloaded will be used for your site.  You can also view screenshots of each Theme you have uploaded to your site.  Note: See [[Using Themes]] for information on finding, downloading, and uploading Themes.

===小工具===
Widgets are gadgets or gizmos that allow you to add various pieces of information to your Theme's sidebar content.  Widgets, for example, can be used to add Categories, Archives, Blogroll, Recent Posts, and Recent Comments to your sidebar.  The WordPress Default 1.6 and WordPress Classic 1.5 Themes, delivered with WordPress, are both widget compatible.

From the [[Appearance Widgets SubPanel]] you can add, delete, and configure, the Widgets use in one or more of your Theme's [[Glossary#Sidebar|sidebar]].  

===編輯主題===
Use the Theme Editor to edit the various files that comprise your Themes.  The [[Appearance Editor SubPanel]] allows you to designate which theme you want to edit then displays the files in that theme.  Each file (Template and CSS) in the theme can be editted in the large text box.

For more information about the code used for [[Using Themes|Themes]], see [[Theme Development]], [[Templates]], [[Stepping Into Templates]], [[Template Hierarchy]], and the page on [[Template Tags]].

===自定義頭部===
The Header Image and Color feature allows you to manage the look and feel of a Theme's header.  This option will only be present if the Theme author has configured to header to allow this capability.  For instance, the WordPress Default Theme (sometimes called Kubrick, this is one of the two themes delivered with WordPress) allows you to set the font color, the lower color (lower part of the header), the upper color, the  whole  header color.  

The [[Appearance Header Image and Color SubPanel]] describes the details of this feature. 

[[#top|回到頁首]]

<div style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; background-color: #fff3f3; margin-left: 1em; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; float: right; width:8em;">
'''插件'''<br />
[[Plugins Installed SubPanel|安裝插件]]<br />
[[Plugins Add New SubPanel|添加新插件]]<br />
[[Plugins Editor SubPanel|插件編輯]]
</div>

==插件 - 在博客上增加功能==
[[Plugins]] allow you to add new features to your WordPress blog that don't come standard with the default installation.  There are a rich variety of Available Plugins for WordPress, and with the following SubPanels, plugin installation and management is a snap.

===插件管理===
The [[Plugins Installed SubPanel|Plugins Installed SubPanel]] allows you to view the plugins you've downloaded and choose which plugins you want activated on your site.  For information on downloading and installing plugins, see [[Managing Plugins]].

===安裝插件===
[[Plugins Add New SubPanel|添加新插件]]功能允許您添加更多新的插件.有關下載和安裝插件的信息,請參閱[[Managing Plugins|管理插件]].

===編輯插件===
利用[[Plugins Editor Screen|編輯插件]]，你可以修改你的插件的所有源代碼。  

[[#top|回到頁首]]

<div style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; background-color: #fff3f3; margin-left: 1em; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; float: right; width: 8em;">
'''用戶'''<br />
[[Users Authors and Users SubPanel|作者和用戶]]<br />
[[Users Add New SubPanel|添加新用戶]]<br />
[[Users Your Profile SubPanel|我的資料]]<br />
</div>

==用戶 - 你的博客成員==
所有的博客一般有兩個用戶：'''管理員''', 這個用戶在WordPress安裝的時候建立；用來編輯或撰寫博客的用戶，用來發布文章。也許你需要更多用戶，比如你想讓你的博客有多個作者。If you want a person to be able to post to your blog, that person must have access to a user account; typically, every person will have her or his ''own'' user account.

Via the Users option in the main navigation menu you can set up all of the user accounts you need, as well as change user information, or delete users.

An important administrative feature here is the [[Roles and Capabilities|Roles]] feature.  Depending on their [[Roles and Capabilities|Role]], different users have different [[Roles and Capabilities#Capabilities|Capabilities]].  Briefly, a user can be assigned the following [[Roles and Capabilities|Roles]]: [[Roles and Capabilities#Administrator|Administrator]], [[Roles and Capabilities#Editor|Editor]], [[Roles and Capabilities#Author|Author]], [[Roles and Capabilities#Contributor|Contributor]], or [[Roles and Capabilities#Subscriber|Subscriber]].

You can also specify your, and others', personal information, such as name, e-mail, etc. from these User Administration Panels.

===作者和用戶===
你可以使用[[Users Screen|用戶管理]]來管理你的所有用戶。

===添加新用戶===
你可以使用[[Users Add New Screen|添加新用戶]]來創建新用戶。

===我的資料===
使用[[Users Your Profile Screen|我的資料]]可以修改所有關於你的用戶賬號的個人信息。

[[#top|回到頁首]]

<div style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; background-color: #fff3f3; margin-left: 1em; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; float: right; width:8em;">
'''工具'''<br />
[[Tools Tools SubPanel|工具]]<br />
[[Tools Import SubPanel|導入]]<br />
[[Tools Export SubPanel|導出]]<br />
[[Tools Upgrade SubPanel|升級]]<br />
</div>

==工具 - 管理你的博客==
WordPress Tools provide you the ability to speed up WordPress for you local machine, import content from other sources, export you content, or to upgrade your WordPress software to a new release.

===Tools - Turbo and Press This===
The '''Turbo''' ability, introduced with [[Version_2.6|Version 2.6]], adds new features to your web browser and speeds up WordPress for the local computer user.  The [http://gears.google.com More information...] link describe the Google Gears product.

The '''Press This''' function allows quick posting and publishing through the use of a special web browser favourite. You can create a shortcut to allow use of "Press This" from the new post screen. You then activate the function when browsing by selecting the favorite from your web browser favorites list.

The [[Tools Tools SubPanel]] allows the '''Turbo''' and '''Press This''' functions to be activated.

===導入===
WordPress 支持從外部資源導入數據. 多數情況下，文章，評論，頁面，分類，標簽，用戶都可以導入.

[[Tools Import SubPanel|導入]] 列表列出的軟件中,WordPress可以導入和細分來自各個平台的數據類型結構. 另請參閱 [[Importing_Content|導入內容]]了解更多支持數據導入功能的程序列表.

===導出===
WordPress 導出功能會創建一個 XML 文件，供您保存到計算機中。我們稱這種格式為 WordPress eXtended RSS 或 WXR，它包含了您的全部文章、頁面、評論、自定義欄目、分類目錄和標簽。

[[Tools Export SubPanel|導出]]功能會引導您通過簡單的步驟導出您的博客內容. 導出功能也是一個備份WordPress數據非常實用的功能.

===升級===
升級功能將允許您自動更新WordPress程序到最新的版本（有新版本更新的情況下）。

[[Tools Upgrade SubPanel|更新頁面]] 給你一個簡單的更新操作方法. 但需要注意的是，並不是所有的主機都能夠進行成功的自動更新，如果更新失敗,依然需要您參考[[Upgrading WordPress|WordPress更新提示]]進行手動更新.

[[#top|回到頁首]]

<div style="border:1px solid #ffc9c9; background-color: #fff3f3; margin-left: 1em; padding: 0.5em 1em 1em; float: right; width:8em;">
'''設置'''<br />
[[Settings General SubPanel|常規]]<br />
[[Settings Writing SubPanel|撰寫]]<br />
[[Settings Reading SubPanel|閱讀]]<br />
[[Settings Discussion SubPanel|評論]]<br />
[[Settings Media SubPanel|媒體]]<br />
[[Settings Privacy SubPanel|隱私]]<br />
[[Settings Permalinks SubPanel|固定連接]]<br />
[[Settings Miscellaneous SubPanel|雜項]]<br />
</div>

==設置 - 配置設置==
You might think, "All these other things I've been doing so far at the Administration Panels have involved 'Settings'.  Are these 'Settings' any different?"  The answer would be, "Yes."  All the settings you've encountered in the other Administration Panels have dealt with very specific parts of your site, or have been of limited scope (only applying to one Category, for example).  In the Settings Administration Panel are all of the settings that define your blog as a whole: settings which determine how your site behaves, how you interact with your site, and how the rest of the world interacts with your site.

The following SubPanels control these settings. 

===常規===
The [[Settings General SubPanel]] is the default SubPanel in the [[#設置 - 配置設置|Settings Administration Panel]] and controls some of the most basic configuration settings for your site:  your site's title and location, who may register an account at your blog, and how dates and times are calculated and displayed.

===撰寫===
Using the [[Settings Writing SubPanel]], you can control the interface with which you write new posts.  These settings control the size of the 'post box' in the [[Write Post SubPanel]], the default Category, the default Link Category, the default image sizes, and the optional [[Settings Writing SubPanel#Post via e-mail|Post via e-mail]] feature.

===閱讀===
The settings in the [[Settings Reading SubPanel]] are few in number, but still important.  You can decide if you want [[Write_Post_SubPanel|posts]], or a "static" [[Pages|Page]], displayed as your blog's front (main) page.  You can also adjust how many posts are displayed on that main page.  In addition, you can adjust [[Glossary#Feed|syndication feed]] features to determine how the information from your site is sent to a reader's web browser or other applications.

===評論===
The [[Settings Discussion SubPanel]] allows you to control settings concerning incoming and outgoing comments, pingbacks and trackbacks.  You can also control from this SubPanel the circumstances under which your blog sends you e-mail notifying you about the goings on at your site, and you can decide if your blog should show [[Glossary#Avatar|Avatars]] and their ratings.  

===媒體===
The [[Settings Media SubPanel]] allows you to determine where images, documents, and other media files will be linked to when inserted into the body of a post and to specify the maximum dimensions in pixels to use when inserting an image into the body of a post.

===隱私===
The [[Settings Privacy SubPanel]] controls your blog visibility to search engines such as Google and Technorati. You can decide if you would like your blog to be visible to everyone, including search engines (like Google, Sphere, Technorati) and archivers. If you don't want your blog available to the search engines you can block search engines, but allow normal visitors to see your site.

===固定連接===
For a nice introduction to Permalinks, check out the [[Introduction_to_Blogging#Pretty_Permalinks|Pretty Permalinks]] section of [[Introduction to Blogging]].  But briefly, and to quote the [[Settings Permalinks SubPanel]] itself:

<blockquote>By default WordPress uses web URLs which have question marks and lots of numbers in them, however WordPress offers you the ability to create a custom URL structure for your permalinks and archives. This can improve the aesthetics, usability, and forward-compatibility of your links. </blockquote>

This [[Settings Permalinks SubPanel]] controls how that custom URI structure is defined.  For a more in depth description of the way this structure is specified, see the [[Using Permalinks]] article.

===雜項===
WordPress has so many features, that some of them defy categorization.  Features like file uploads, link tracking and support for custom "hacks" can be controlled from the [[Settings Miscellaneous SubPanel]].

[[#top|回到頁首]]

==登出==

The Log Out link is found at the top right corner in the Administration Panels.  It is simply a link that will log you out from your WordPress blog.

When you log in to your blog, WordPress stores a so called "cookie" in your web browser.  This cookie allows WordPress to remember who you are; if you leave your blog's site for a while but come back to it later, WordPress will see the cookie and not require you to log in again.

However, the cookie cannot tell WordPress ''who'' is using the WordPress;  in other words, WordPress has no way of looking back at you through your monitor to determine if you are really you.  If you have a WordPress cookie set in your web browser, anyone using your computer can access the Administration Panels of your blog.  If you ''don't'' want this to happen (perhaps you are using a public computer or a computer which other people use), you can click this '''Log Out''' link, and WordPress will delete the cookie from your web browser.

You can, of course, log in at some later time.

==常用菜單==
The Favorites Menu in '''the header''' is provided to give quick access to the most used WordPress functions.  Those options include, New Post, Drafts, New Page, Upload, and Comments.

==顯示選項==
Screen Options, displayed as a hanging tab under '''the header''', allow the user to decide what fields or modules are presented in the '''work area''' for a given function.  Each SubPanel may have a different set of Screen Options.  

Click on the Screen Options tab to expand the options available for a particular SubPanel, check (or uncheck) the desired options, then click the Screen Options hanging tab to collapse the Screen Options.

==幫助==
Contextual '''Help''', displayed as a hanging tab under '''the header''', displays one or more Help items that are related to the SubPanel that is displayed in the '''work area'''.  

Click on the Help tab to expand the Help available for a particular SubPanel, then click the Help hanging tab to collapse the Help display.

[[#top|回到頁首]]

[[Category:zh-cn:管理頁面]]
[[Category:zh-cn:開始使用]]

{{zh-cn:Stub}}