{{Languages|
{{en|WordPress in Your Language}}
{{ja|WordPress を他の言語で使う}}
{{ko|WordPress in Your Language}}
{{th|WordPress in Your Language}}
{{zh-tw|用你的語言使用 WordPress}}
}}

雖然WordPress預設顯示為美式英文(en_US)，但WordPress可以被使用在不同的語言上。WordPress開發者社群已經翻譯了許多不同語言版本的WordPress, 還有他們的主題、翻譯檔案以及支援其他更多的語言。它也可以藉由[[Plugins]]的幫忙來建立[[Multilingual_WordPress|multilingual blog]]。

== 使用介紹 ==
如果您想使用不同語言版本的WordPress，您可以參照下列步驟進行：

* Check [http://make.wordpress.org/polyglots/handbook/about/teams/ this page] to see what is already available in your language.
* Read [[Installing WordPress in Your Language]] to learn how to install files that will transform WordPress so it displays in your language.
* If your language is not listed, you can check out the [http://i18n.svn.wordpress.org/ WordPress Language File Repository] (see [[Translating_WordPress#WordPress_Localization_Repository | this article on the Repository]] for more information). 
* There is a list of [[L10n:Localization_Teams|localization teams]] and [[L10n:Teams Currently Forming|localization teams currently forming]], which you can check to see if a translation is in progress. 
* If your language is neither listed on this page nor available in the Repository, or if the available translation needs improvement, you can choose to help! See [[Translating WordPress]] and [[I18n_for_WordPress_Developers|I18n for WordPress Developers]] for more information.
* There are a variety of [[Plugins|WordPress Plugins]] which you can choose from if you would like to create bilingual posts, change languages between posts or do translations.  For more information, see the Plugin Directory at [http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/ Official WordPress Plugin Directory] or at [http://www.wp-plugins.net WordPress Plugin Database].
* If you want the admin interface to use and download the WordPress translation files available at http://i18n.svn.wordpress.org/, then you could consider using [http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/wp-native-dashboard/ wp-native-dashboard].

== List of localizations ==
The list of localizations that was previously here was out of date and has been removed. The list will [http://make.wordpress.org/polyglots/handbook/about/teams/ live here] soon. For now, [http://wpcentral.io/internationalization go here]

[[Category:Translating WordPress]]   
[[Category:Advanced Topics]]