{{Languages|
{{en|Developer Documentation}}
{{es|Developer Documentation}}
{{it|Documentazione per sviluppatori}}
{{ko|Developer Documentation}}
{{ru|Документация для разработчика}}
{{zh-cn|开发者文档}}
{{zh-tw|開發文件}}
}}

== 導論 ==
WorePress 相信保持簡單可為 [[WordPress]] 保有快速和輕巧，即便是有著一堆想法被引入作為 WordPress "核心"程式碼新功能性的一部分。直到現在，用戶仍經常發現需要為 WordPress 添加新功能以滿足他們的需求。本節的 Codex 提供指導和參考給任何想要修改、擴展，或有助於使用 WordPress 的人。

您或許也會想要看看 [http://codex.wordpress.org/FAQ_Developer_Documentation 開發者文件 FAQ]

<div style="clear: both;"></div>

<div style="margin:5px; padding:5px; border:2px solid #F22; text-align:center;"><div style="color:#F55; font-size:110%; font-weight:bold;">警告：程式設計專業術語</div>

以下的文章中，你或許會讀到許多程式設計的專業術語，但是並未以非程式設計師可以理解的程度來解釋這些細節。

雖然僅限於少數個別的程式設計師可以變更 WordPress 可供下載的檔案，但是每一位 WordPress 使用者對於 WorePress 核心碼的變更都具有影響力，以便讓 WordPress 具有高度的客製化能力。
</div>

== 佈景主題開發 ==

* [http://www.wordpress.org/extend/themes WordPress 佈景主題目錄] - WordPress 佈景主題的官方展示櫥窗及駐在網站。
* [http://codex.wordpress.org/zh-tw:%E4%B8%BB%E9%A1%8C%E9%96%8B%E7%99%BC 佈景主題開發] - 有關設計及開發 WordPress 佈景主題的參考文件以及資源。
* [[佈景主題審查]] - 提交你的佈景主題到佈景主題目錄。
* [http://codex.wordpress.org/Templates 範本] - WordPress 佈景主題樣板的參考文件。
* [http://codex.wordpress.org/zh-tw:%E7%AF%84%E6%9C%AC%E6%A8%99%E7%B1%A4 範本標籤] - 特別建立用在佈景主題的 PHP 函式。
* [[Function Reference]] - Complete PHP function reference for WordPress
* [[WordPress Deprecated Functions Hook]] - Information on deprecated functions hooks
* [http://codex.wordpress.org/zh-tw:%E9%81%B7%E7%A7%BB%E5%A4%96%E6%8E%9B%E8%88%87%E4%BD%88%E6%99%AF%E4%B8%BB%E9%A1%8C 遷移外掛及佈景主題] - Contains information on how to upgrade your Theme so it will work from version to version of WordPress
* [[WordPress Coding Standards]] - General information about coding standards for WordPress development and code writing
* [http://codex.wordpress.org/CSS_Coding_Standards CSS 編寫標準] - 開發過程中所使用的 CSS 編寫標準。

== 外掛開發 ==

* [[Writing a Plugin]] - 學習有關如何開發外掛的最佳起點。
* [[Plugin Resources]] - 開發外掛的其他參考資料之綜合清單。
* [[Plugin API]] - 用在你的外掛中的 Hooks, Actions, 及 Filters (2.1版；亦連結到較舊版本的文章)
* [[Function Reference]] - Complete PHP function reference for WordPress (version 2.1, with links to previous versions)
* [[Shortcode API]] - A tutorial and reference for the shortcode API (new in version 2.5)
* [[Dashboard Widgets API]] - A reference with examples for adding new widgets to the admin dashboard.
* [[Settings API]] - A reference with examples for adding new settings to existing settings screens.
* [[Data Validation]] - 一個對於 WordPress 外掛作者來說 '''必讀''' 的文件，描述被 WordPress 所使用的函數要如何驗證以及淨化資料，外掛作者應該要熟悉這些函數與概念。
* [[Migrating Plugins and Themes]] - Contains information on how to upgrade your Plugin so it will work from version to version of WordPress
* [[WordPress Coding Standards]] - General information about coding standards for WordPress development
* [[Plugin Submission and Promotion]] - Once you have written your plugin, here are some hints on distributing it widely
* [[Widgets API]] - A reference with examples for creating widgets for use in sidebars

== 對 Wordpress 的貢獻 ==

* [[Contributing to WordPress]] - Main starting point if you would like to contribute to core WordPress development, documentation, support, translations, or financial health
* [[Automated Testing]] - Testing WordPress using the automated test suite and how to use the tools and write test cases.
* [[Data Validation]] - A '''must-read''' for WordPress contributors.  Describes the functions used by WordPress to validate and sanitize data.  Developers contributing to WordPress' codebase should be familiar with these functions and ideas.

== 論壇、列表及部落格 ==

* [[Mailing Lists]] - WordPress mailing lists for documentation and development
* [[IRC]] - WordPress IRC channels
* http://wordpress.org/support - WordPress Support Forums
* http://wordpress.org/development - WordPress Development Blog
* http://planet.wordpress.org - Aggregate of many blogs discussing WordPress (official)
* http://planetwordpress.planetozh.com/ - Another aggregate of many blogs discussing WordPress mostly plugins and themes (unofficial)


== 其他您可能感興趣的資訊 ==

* [[Advanced Topics]] - Annotated list of many articles on advanced WordPress topics
* [[Query Overview]] - Description of the WordPress query process used to find posts and display them
* [[Reporting Bugs]] - Information on reporting and fixing WordPress bugs
* [[Using Subversion]] - Introduction to SVN, the source code repository used by WordPress
* [[Development Team]] - The members of the development team.

== 外部資源 ==

=== WordPress Hooks ===
[http://adambrown.info/p/wp_hooks WP Hook Database] - Thorough and extremely useful reference of all hooks (actions and filters) used in WordPress cross referenced by version.

=== WordPress 原始碼 ===
* '''PHPXref sites''': PHPXref creates a cross reference of WordPress files, functions and variables.
** [http://phpxref.ftwr.co.uk/wordpress/nav.html?_functions/index.html WordPress PHPXref by Westi] - Up to date PHPXref maintained by Peter Westwood.
** [http://lab.yukei.net/wp-code Latest Version at lab.yukei.net] - Latest released version (updates automatically every week).
** [http://lab.yukei.net/wp-trunk Trunk at lab.yukei.net] - Development version (from SVN; updates automatically every day).
* [http://planetozh.com/projects/wordpress-functions-history/table_light.html WordPress Function History Table] - List of what version each WordPress function was added in; PlanetOzh recommends: "''see related [http://planetozh.com/blog/my-projects/wordpress-functions-implementation-history-tool/ WordPress Functions Implementation History Tool] for more information (and for a more usable tool)''"
* [http://dd32.id.au/wp-2.4-variable-report.html WordPress Variable Report] - A list of WordPress functions, listing what version of PHP every function requires (and if there's a compatible function available), what varables/arguments in functions are unused, and what functions/variables each class contains (and their default values).
* [http://www.google.com/coop/cse?cx=003089488824223329442%3Avwjqws2iu5u   WordPress Development Search (Google CSE)]

===其他資源===
* [http://www.php.net/manual/en PHP Manual]
* [http://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql/en/index.html MySQL Manual]
* [http://subversion.tigris.org/ Subversion Home Page]

{{toclist}}
[[Category:zh-tw:Advanced Topics]]
[[Category:zh-tw:WordPress Development]]
[[Category:zh-tw:UI Link]]