{{Languages|
{{en|Upgrading WordPress Extended}}
{{fr|fr:Details de mise a jour}}
{{ja|WordPress のアップグレード/詳細}}
{{ru|Обновление WordPress (подробно)}}
{{zh-cn|升级 WordPress 进阶}}
}}

{{ru:Stub}}

==Подробные инструкции==

===Обзор процесса обновления===
# [[#Step 1: Back up your database|Сделайте резервную копию базы данных]]. Подробности можно найти в статье [[Создание резервной копии базы данных|«Создание резервной копии базы данных»]].
# [[#Step 2: Back up ALL your WordPress files|Сделайте резервную копию ВСЕХ файлов]] в каталоге WordPress. Помните о файле [[Glossary#.htaccess<|<tt>.htaccess</tt>]].  
# [[#Step 3: Verify the backups|Проверьте резервные копии]] — убедитесь, что ими можно воспользоваться. Это важно.
# [[#Step 4: Deactivate ALL your Plugins|Деактивируйте ВСЕ плагины]].
# [[#Step 5: Ensure first four steps are completed|Убедитесь, что первые четыре шага выполнены]]. Не предпринимайте обновление до выполнения этих шагов.
# [[#Step 6: Download and extract the WordPress package|Скачайте и разархивируйте дистрибутив WordPress]] с http://ru.wordpress.org/releases/. 
# [[#Step 7: Delete the old WordPress files|Удалите старые файлы WordPress]] с вашего сайта, но '''<span style="color:red">НЕ УДАЛЯЙТЕ</span>''':
#*файл <code><span style="color:red">wp-config.php</span></code>;
#*каталог <code><span style="color:red">wp-content</span></code>; Исключение: каталоги <code>wp-content/cache</code> и <code>wp-content/plugins/widgets</code> можно удалить.
#*каталог <code><span style="color:red">wp-images</span></code>;
#*файл <code><span style="color:red">.htaccess</span></code> — если вы добавляли собственные правила в <code>.htaccess</code>, не удаляйте его;
#*файл <code><span style="color:red">robots.txt</span></code> — если ваш блог расположен в корневом каталоге сайта (т.е. блог и является сайтом), и вы создали этот файл, не удаляйте его.
# [[#Step 8: Upload the new files|Загрузите новые файлы]] с вашего компьютера в соответствующий каталог WordPress на сайте.
# [[#Step 9: Run the WordPress upgrade program|Запустите процедуру обновления WordPress]] и следуйте указаниям на экране.
# [[#Step 10: Update Permalinks and .htaccess|Обновите постоянные ссылки и .htaccess]].  Обновите структуру постоянных ссылок и созданные вами правила (если есть) в файле [[Glossary#.htaccess<|<tt>.htaccess</tt>]].
# [[#Step 11: Install updated Plugins and Themes|Установите обновлённые плагины и темы]].  Посмотрите [[Plugins/Plugin_Compatibility/{{CurrentVersion}}|список плагинов, работающих с версией {{CurrentVersion}}]]. Проверьте [[Themes/Theme_Compatibility/{{CurrentVersion}}|совместимость вашей темы с версией {{CurrentVersion}}]] и спросите у автора темы, доступна ли новая версия.
# [[#Step 12: Reactivate Plugins|Повторно активируйте плагины]]
# [[#Step 13: Add security key definitions to the wp-config.php file|Добавьте ключи безопасности в файл ''wp-config.php'']]
# [[#Step 14: Review what has changed in WordPress|Посмотрите, что изменилось в WordPress]].

Это краткий обзор процесса обновления. Подробные инструкции вы найдёте ниже.  

В случае возникновения проблем повторно прочтите приведённые ниже инструкции, чтобы убедиться в правильности всех действий, и обратитесь к разделу [[Installing_WordPress#Common_Installation_Problems|«Решение проблем: Основные проблемы при установке»]].

===Обновление с версии 2.7.x до {{CurrentVersion}}===
Выполните шаги 1-4, затем посетите [[Administration_Panels|Administration]] > [[Administration_Panels#Upgrade|Tools]] > [[Tools_Upgrade_SubPanel|Upgrade]] и нажмите кнопку "Обновить автоматически".

===Подробные инструкции для обновления с версии 1.5.x, и версий 2.0 - 2.6.5, до {{CurrentVersion}}===
Следующие ниже инструкции пошагово и наиболее детально поясняют процесс обновления. Пожалуйста, внимательно прочитайте все инструкции, прежде чем начинать обновление!

====Шаг 1: Резервное копирование баз данных====
Создайте резервную копию баз данных.  Все Ваши данные WordPress, такие как as Пользователи, Посты, Страницы, Ссылки и Категории, - сохранены в [[Glossary#MySQL|MySQL]] [[Database Description|database]].  Пожалуйста, прочитайте: [[Backing Up Your Database]] для более детального описания резервного копирования баз данных. 

Крайне важно создать резервную копию баз данных перед началом обновления! Если по каким-либо причинам вы посчитаете необходимым вернуться к прежней версиии WordPress, Вы будете иметь возможность восстановить базы данных из этой резервной копии.

====Step 2: Back up ALL your WordPress files====
Back up ALL of your files in your WordPress directory and your [[Glossary#.htaccess<|<tt>.htaccess</tt>]] file.  Typically, this process involves using an [[FTP Clients|FTP program]] to download ALL your WordPress files from your host to your local computer.
Please read [[WordPress_Backups#Backing_Up_Your_WordPress_Site|Backing Up Your WordPress Site]] for further explanation.

If you have made changes to any core WordPress files, or if you've got customized Plugins or Themes, you will want to have a good backup of those files.  It is extremely important to back up your files before beginning the upgrade.  If for some reason you find it necessary to revert back to the 'old' version of WordPress you will need to upload these files.

====Step 3: Verify the backups====
Verify that the backups you created are there and usable.  '''This is the most important step in the upgrade process!'''  
The verification process involves making sure you can see the backup files on your local computer (or wherever you've stored them) and that you can navigate into any sub-folders.  If the files are in a zip file, make sure you can open the zip file.  Also consider opening a ''.sql'' file in an [[Glossary#Text editor|editor]] to see if the tables and data are represented.

====Step 4: Deactivate ALL your Plugins====
In your [[Administration Panels|Administration panel]], under the Plugins choice, deactivate any Plugins.  Because of the changes to WordPress, some Plugins may conflict with the upgrade process.

====Step 5: Ensure first four steps are completed====
If you have not completed the first four procedures, STOP, and do them!  Do not attempt the upgrade unless you have completed the first four steps.  

The best resource for problems with your upgrade is the [http://wordpress.org/support/ WordPress Support Forums], and if you have problems, the volunteers at the [http://wordpress.org/support/ WordPress Support Forums] will likely ask if you have completed the first four steps.

====Step 6: Download and extract the WordPress package====
Download and unzip the WordPress package from http://wordpress.org/download/.
* If you will be uploading WordPress to a remote web server, download the WordPress package to your computer with your favorite web browser and unzip the package.
* If you have [[Glossary#Shell|shell]] access to your web server, and are comfortable using console-based tools, you may wish to download WordPress directly to your [[Glossary#Web server|web server]]. You can do so using <tt>wget</tt> , <tt>lynx</tt> or another console-based web browser, which are valuable if you want to avoid [[Glossary#FTP|FTPing]]. Place the package in a directory parallel to your current wordpress directory (like "uploads," for example). Then, unzip it using: <tt>gunzip -c wordpress-{{CurrentVersion}}.tar.gz | tar -xf -</tt> or by using: <tt>tar -xzvf latest.tar.gz </tt> 

The WordPress package will be extracted into a folder called <tt>wordpress</tt>.

====Step 7: Delete the old WordPress files====
'''Why Delete?''' Generally, it is a good idea to delete whatever is possible because the uploading (or upgrading through cPanel) process may not correctly overwrite an existing file and that may cause problems later.

'''<span style="color:red">DO NOT DELETE</span> these folders and files:''' 
*<code>wp-config.php</code> file;
*<code>wp-content</code> folder;
*<code>wp-images</code> folder--only older installations from 1.5.x days will have this folder;
*<code>wp-includes/languages/</code> folder--if you are using a language file, and it is here rather than in <tt>wp-content/languages/</tt>, do not delete this folder (you might want to move your language files to <tt>wp-content/languages/</tt> for easier upgrading in the future);.
*<code>.htaccess</code> file--if you have added custom rules to your <code>.htaccess</code>, do not delete it;
*Custom Content and/or Plugins--if you have any images or other custom content or Plugins inside the <code>wp-content</code> folder, do NOT delete them.

'''Delete these Files and Folders:'''
*<code>wp-* (except for those above), readme.html, wp.php, xmlrpc.php, and license.txt; </code> files; Typically files in your root or wordpress folder.  Again, don't delete the <code>wp-config.php</code> file. '''Note''': some files such as wp.php may not exist in later versions such as 2.7.
*<code>wp-admin</code> folder;
*<code>wp-includes</code> folder; If you have a language file here, remember not to delete the <code>wp-includes/languages/</code> folder
*<code>wp-content/cache</code> folder; You only see this folder if you are upgrading FROM WordPress 2.0.
*<code>wp-content/plugins/widgets</code> folder; You only see this folder if you previously installed the Sidebar Widgets plugin.  The Sidebar Widgets code conflicts with the built-in widget ability. 
'''How to Delete?''' There are several ways to delete the files from your WordPress site.  You can use your FTP Client, or if you have access to Telenet or SSH you can use that.  Some host providers also provide the ability to delete files and folders.

;Using FTP to delete files and folders :The same [[FTP_Clients|FTP client]] you use for [[Uploading_WordPress_to_a_remote_host|uploading]] can be used to delete files and folders.  If your [[FTP_Clients|FTP client]] does not appear to permit you to delete non-empty folders, check the available options for your [[FTP_Clients|FTP client]]. You'll usually find an option that permits deleting non-empty folders. Deleting non-empty folders is a quick and thorough method cleaning out an old installation of WordPress.  It is recommended that once the deleting is done, you switch back to the original setting for safety reasons.

;Using Telnet or SSH to delete file :If you have a command-line login (telnet or ssh), you can enter the following commands to make backup copies of the files you need to keep and to delete ONLY the wordpress files in your directory (plus .htaccess). If you've customized other files (like <code>index.php</code>) not included by the <code>cp</code> commands below, copy them as well:
:* <code>mkdir backup</code>
:* <code>cp wp-config.php .htaccess backup</code>
:* <code>cp -R wp-content backup</code>
:* <code>rm wp*.php .htaccess license.txt readme.html xmlrpc.php</code>
:* <code>rm -rf wp-admin wp-includes</code>
:* <code>cp backup/wp-config.php .</code>
:* After you have finished with the upgrade, you can restore any customizations to your templates or plugins from your backup directory. For example, use <code>cp backup/index.php .</code> to restore <code>index.php</code>.
: Alternatively, using SSH, you could copy <code>wp-config.php, .htaccess</code>, and any content files you've added or altered into the ''new'' wordpress directory. Then, rename the old one (to archive it), and move the new one into its place.

====Step 8: Upload the new files====
With the new upgrade on your local computer, and using [[Glossary#FTP|FTP]], [[Uploading_WordPress_to_a_remote_host|upload]] the new files to your site server just as you did when you first installed WordPress.  See [[Using FileZilla|Using FileZilla]] and [[Uploading_WordPress_to_a_remote_host|Uploading WordPress to a remote host]] for  detailed guidelines in using an FTP Client to upload.

'''NOTE: If you did not delete the <code>wp-content</code> folder, you will need to overwrite some files during the upload.''' 

The <code>wp-content</code> folder holds your WordPress Themes and Plugins.  These should remain.  Upload everything else first, then upload only those WordPress files that are new or changed to your new <code>wp-content</code> folder. Overwrite any old versions of default plugins with the new ones.

The WordPress default theme has changed so you will want to upload the <code>wp-content/themes/default</code> folder.  If you have custom changes to the default theme, those changes will need to be reviewed and installed after the upgrade.

====Step 9: Run the WordPress upgrade program====
Using a web browser, go to the WordPress admin pages at the normal /wp-admin location. WordPress will check to see if a database upgrade is necessary, and if it is, it will give you a new link to follow. 

This link will lead you to run the WordPress upgrade script by accessing <tt>wp-admin/upgrade.php</tt>. Follow the instructions presented on your screen.

Note: Make sure the database user name registered to WordPress has permission to create, modify, and delete database tables before you do this step. If you installed WordPress in the standard way, and nothing has changed since then, you are fine.

If you want to run the upgrade script manually:
* If WordPress is installed in the root directory, point your browser to: <tt><nowiki>http://example.com/wp-admin/upgrade.php</nowiki></tt>
* If WordPress is installed in its own subdirectory called <tt>blog</tt>, for example, point your browser to: <tt><nowiki>http://example.com/blog/wp-admin/upgrade.php</nowiki></tt>

If you experience difficulties with login after your upgrade, it is worth clearing your browser's cookies.

====Step 10: Update Permalinks and .htaccess====
In your [[Administration_Panels|Administration]] > [[Administration_Panels#Permalinks|Settings]] > [[Settings_Permalinks_SubPanel|Permalinks]]  panel update your Permalink Structure and, if necessary, place the rules in your [[Glossary#.htaccess<|<tt>.htaccess</tt>]] file.  Also see [[Using_Permalinks|Using Permalinks]] for details regarding Permalinks and the [[Glossary#.htaccess<|<tt>.htaccess</tt>]] file.

====Step 11: Install updated Plugins and Themes====
Please review the [[Plugins/Plugin_Compatibility|Plugin Compatibility List]] and [[Themes/Theme_Compatibility|Theme Compatibility List]], or plugin/theme authors, to find plugins and themes compatible with your new WordPress version. Upload and install new versions of your Plugins and Themes, if necessary.

====Step 12: Reactivate Plugins====
Use your Administration Panel, Plugins, to activate your Plugins. If your plugins do not appear on the [[Plugins/Plugin_Compatibility|Plugin Compatibility List]] and you are not sure if they will work correctly with the new version, activate each plugin, one at a time, and test that there are no problems before continuing.
<!--Please note that if you are using the new WordPress Database Backup Plugin you may need to change the permissions on your <code>wp-content</code> folder to make it writeable by your webserver (either mode 666 or even 777).  See [[Changing_File_Permissions|Changing File Permissions]] for more details.
-->

====Step 13: Add security key definitions to the ''wp-config.php'' file====
Beginning with WordPress [[Version 2.6]], three (3) security keys, AUTH_KEY, SECURE_AUTH_KEY, and LOGGED_IN_KEY, are used to insure better encryption of information stored in the user's cookies. Beginning with [[Version 2.7]] a fourth key, NONCE_KEY, was added to this group.

If you don't find the keys in your <code>wp-config.php</code> file, add the keys definitions with reference to [[Editing wp-config.php#Security Keys|Editing wp-config.php - Security Keys]], and upload to your server.

====Step 14: Review what has changed in WordPress====
Please review these resources to see what's new in WordPress:  

*[[Version_3.0|Version 3.0 Details]]
*[http://wordpress.org/development/ WordPress Development Blog]

=====Special note for Fantastico Upgrades=====
When using the Fantastico upgrade process to upgrade from a pre-Version 2.2, Fantastico will use the wp-config-sample.php file to regenerate a new wp-config.php file.  By doing this, two new values, DB_CHARSET and DB_COLLATE, are placed into the wp-config.php file.  Those lines should be deleted from your wp-config.php if you are upgrading from a pre-Version 2.2 (like 2.0.10 or 2.1.3) to Version {{CurrentVersion}}.  A detailed explanation about DB_CHARSET and DB_COLLATE can be found in [[Editing wp-config.php]].

<!-- saving for later upgrades
===Upgrade 2.0.6 to {{CurrentVersion}} ===

This is a security upgrade. Information can be found in the
[http://wordpress.org/development/2007/01/wordpress-207/ WordPress Dev Blog 2.0.7 Announcement].

As with all WordPress upgrades, the contents of your <code>/wp-content/</code> folder should remain intact and unchanged except as noted below.

# Delete <code>/wp-admin/</code> folder.
# Delete <code>/wp-includes/</code> folder. Note: '''You must backup <code>/wp-includes/languages/</code> directory if exists. Also backup <code>/wp-includes/images/</code> IF you are using a custom smiley set.'''
# WordPress {{Template:CurrentVersion}} contains updated files for the classic and default themes as well as the akismet plugin. If you would like the updated files, delete the <code>/wp-content/themes/default</code>, <code>/wp-content/themes/classic</code>, and the <code>/wp-content/plugins/akismet</code> folders. '''Remember to make a backup of your customisations first!'''
# Delete all the wordpress files in the root directory where the root <code>index.php</code> file is found. '''DO NOT DELETE <code>wp-config.php</code> (nor any files you may have added yourself: <code>robots.txt</code>, <code>.htaccess</code>, <code>favicon.ico</code>).'''
# Download and extract the new version.
# Upload it to the appropriate folders such as <code>/wp-admin/</code>, <code>/wp-includes/</code>, and if you deleted the default theme, the classic theme, and the akismet plugin, <code>/wp-content/themes/classic</code>, and the <code>/wp-content/plugins/akismet</code> folders.
# Upload all the files in the root directory.
# If existed, restore <code>/wp-includes/languages/</code> directory

That's it.

Volunteers are assisting with problems on the [http://wordpress.org/support/ WordPress Support Forums].

**end of saving for later upgrade 
-->

==Other languages==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Language (english, native) !! Version (new to old) !! Remark
|-

|-
| Chinese, 简体中文 || [http://www.owind.com/pub/computer/wordpress/2007/08/05/wordpress-222/ 2.2.1 to 2.2.2], [http://www.owind.com/pub/computer/wordpress/2007/05/16/wordpress-22-released/ 2.1 to 2.2], [http://www.owind.com/pub/computer/wordpress/2007/04/03/wordpress-213-and-2010/ 2.1.2 to 2.1.3], [http://www.owind.com/pub/computer/2007/02/21/wordpress-211-and-209/ 2.1 to 2.1.1], [http://www.owind.com/pub/computer/2007/02/21/wordpress-211-and-209/ 2.0.7 to 2.0.9], [http://www.owind.com/pub/computer/2007/01/17/wordpress-207/ 2.0.6 to 2.0.7], [http://bemike.org/blog/2007/01/07/upgrading-wodpress-from-205-to-206.html 2.0.5 to 2.0.6], [http://www.owind.com/pub/computer/2006/11/03/wordpress-205/ 2.0.4 to 2.0.5]
|-
| Hungarian, magyar nyelv || [http://dokumentacio.word-press.hu/WordPress_2-1-3  2.1.2 to 2.1.3], [http://dokumentacio.word-press.hu/Frissites-2-x-verziorol-2-1-s-verziora  2.x to 2.1], [http://word-press.hu none specified]
|-
| Italian, italiano || [http://www.wordpress-it.it/wiki/Main/Upgrade-20 fino alla 2.7], [http://www.wordpress-it.it/2008/12/10/wordpress-27-il-primo-screencast/ dalla 2.7]
|-
| Korean || [http://cys.kr/wp/2007/02/10/208 1.5.x, 2.0.x to 2.1], [http://cys.kr/wp/2006/10/31/197 2.0.4 to 2.0.5]
|-
| Spain, Castellano || [http://www.davidsuarez.es/?p=203 2.2 to 2.2.1], [http://www.davidsuarez.es/?p=215 2.2.1 to 2.2.2],  [http://www.davidsuarez.es/?p=324 2.2.2 to 2.2.3],  [http://www.davidsuarez.es/?p=399 2.3 to 2.3.1],  [http://www.davidsuarez.es/?p=505 2.3.1 to 2.3.2],  [http://www.davidsuarez.es/?p=554 2.3.2 to 2.3.3],  [http://www.davidsuarez.es/?p=592 2.3 to 2.5]
|-
| Thai, ภาษาไทย || [http://codex.wordpress.org/th:%E0%B8%81%E0%B8%B2%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%AD%E0%B8%B1%E0%B8%9E%E0%B9%80%E0%B8%81%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%94%E0%B9%80%E0%B8%A7%E0%B8%B4%E0%B8%A3%E0%B9%8C%E0%B8%94%E0%B9%80%E0%B8%9E%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%AA การอัปเกรดเวิร์ดเพรส]
|-
| Vietnamese, Việt || [http://zghb.org/quy-trnh-nng-cp-wp25-26/ 2.5 to 2.6]
|-
| Turkish, Türkçe || [http://www.wordpress-tr.com/belgeler/Surum_yukseltme none specified]
|-
| Russian, Русский || [http://tods-blog.com.ua/wordpress-update/ old to new]
|-
| Ukrainian, украї́нська мо́ва || [http://hip.org.ua/wordpress/upgrade-wordpress-new.html any 2.0.x to 2.3.x], [http://ribel.org.ua/?p=97/ 2.0.5 to 2.0.6] 
|}

==Проблемы и решения==
;Повредилась разметка или появились ошибки :Если ваш блог выглядит поврежденным или выдает ошибки, в этом могут быть виноваты старые плагины, которые не работают с обновленным кодом. В [[Administration_Panels|Консоли администратора]] деактивируйте все плагины, которые не идут в комплекте с WordPress, и повторной активируйте их.

;Вносили изменения/хаки? :Если вы вносили изменения в файлы самого WordPress ("ломали" его), отслеживайте ваши изменения. Вам потребуется внести ваши правки в обновленный код. [[WordPress Versions|Здесь]] список измененных файлов для каждой версии.

;Избегайте пользоваться старым кодом :Обновление дает вам самый новый и самый лучший код. Использование устаревшего кода, вне зависимости от того, как хорошо вы его отлаживали, всегда является возможной причиной сбоев. Искушение использовать исправленный старый код будет велико, но так же увеличится шанс появления ошибок.

;Могу ли я вернуться к старой версии :Да, вы можете, но обычно это не рекомендуется. Во-первых, новые версии включают в себя обновления безопасности и откат подвергнет ваш сайт риску. Во-вторых, изменения в структуре базы данных между версиями могут повредить целостность контента, записей, комментариев и настроек плагинов, сохраненных в базе. Если вы все еще хотите это сделать, то вы делаете это на свой риск. '''Пожалуйста, имейте в виду, чтобы без резервной копии всего сайта и базы данных, сделанных ПЕРЕД обновлением, успешный откат почти невозможен.''' Удалите все файлы WordPress кроме <tt>wp-config</tt>. [[Uploading_WordPress_to_a_remote_host|Загрузите]] файлы из вашей резервной копии на сервер и [[Restoring_Your_Database_From_Backup|восстановите из резервной копии базу данных]]. Помните, у вам должны быть рабочие резервные копии для того, чтобы откат был успешен.  Для старых версий WordPress откат может не работать.

;Получите дополнительную помощь :При получении любой ошибки по время обновления, обратитесь к разделу [[Installing_WordPress#Common_Installation_Problems|Проблемы и решения: Общие проблемы установки]], [[Troubleshooting|Решение проблем]], и  [http://codex.wordpress.org/Category:Installation статьям из рубрики Установка].  Если вы не можете найти ответ, задайте вопрос на [http://ru.forums.wordpress.org Форумах поддержки WordPress]. Вас спросят, использовали ли вы устаревший код и расскажут, как его надо изменить, чтобы вы могли сами исправить вашу ситуацию :)

==Old Upgrade Information==
If you are considering upgrading to WordPress Version {{CurrentVersion}}, but you are at Version 1.2, then follow the 1.2 to 1.5 upgrade as describe in [[Upgrade_1.2_to_1.5|Upgrading From WordPress Version 1.2 to 1.5]].  Once you are upgraded to Version 1.5.x, then follow the instructions as listed above to upgrade from 1.5 to {{CurrentVersion}}.

[[Category:Installation]]
[[Category:Getting Started]]
[[Category:Russian Codex]]