{{Languages|
{{en|WordPress Semantics}}
{{es|Semántica de WordPress}}
{{ja|WordPress Semantics}}
{{ko|WordPress Semantics}}
{{lo|WordPress_Semantics}}
{{mya|WordPress_Semantics}}
{{ru|Терминология WordPress}}
{{th|WordPress Semantics}}
}}
{{ru:Stub}}

Как и во многих программных пакетах, WordPress имеет свой собственный язык или жаргон (  [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Technical_terminology jargon] ).  В этой статье мы познакомим вас с  терминологией, используемой в WordPress. 

==Введение в терминологию WordPress ==
WordPress был создан группой разработчиков ( [[Copyright Holders|developers]] ) как  "'''weblogging'''" или программное обеспечение для создания и ведения блога - блоггинга ([[Introduction to Blogging|blogging]]) .  A [[Glossary#Blog|blog]], as defined in the [[Glossary|Codex Glossary]], is an online journal, diary, or serial, published by a person or group of people.  Many ''blogs'' are personal in nature, reflecting the opinions and interests of the owner.  But, ''blogs'' are now important tools in the world of news, business, politics, and entertainment.  

''Blogs'' are a form of a [[Glossary#Content Management System|Content Management System (CMS)]] which [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Content_management_system Wikipedia] calls "a system used to organize and facilitate collaborative content creation."   Both ''blogs'' and ''Content Management Systems'' can perform the role of a [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Website website] ('''site''' for short).  A ''website'' can be thought of as a collection of articles and information about a specific subject, service, or product, which may not be a personal reflection of the owner.  More recently, as the role of WordPress has expanded, WordPress developers have begun using the more general term '''site''', in place of blog.

===Terminology Related to Content===
{{Template:Terminology}}
The term '''Word''' in WordPress refers to the words used to compose [http://www.etymonline.com/index.php?term=post posts].  ''Posts'' are the principal element (or [[Glossary#Content|content]]) of a blog.  The ''posts'' are the writings, compositions, discussions, discourses, musings, and, yes, the rantings of the blog's owner and guest authors.  ''Posts'', in most cases, are the reason a blog exists; without ''posts'', there is no blog!  

To facilitate the post writing process, WordPress provides a [[Posts Add New SubPanel|full featured authoring tool]] with modules that can be moved, via [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Drag_and_drop drag-and-drop], to fit the needs of all authors.  The [[Dashboard_Dashboard_SubPanel#QuickPress|Dashboard QuickPress module]] makes it easy to quickly write and publish a post.  There's no excuse for not writing.

Integral to a blog are the pictures, images, sounds, and movies, otherwise know as [[Media Library SubPanel|media]].  ''Media'' enhances, and gives life to a blog's content.  WordPress provides an easy to use method of inserting ''Media'' directly into posts, and a method to [[Media Add New SubPanel|upload Media]] that can be later attached to posts, and a [[Media Library SubPanel|Media Manager]] to manage those various ''Media''.

An important part of the [[Posts Add New SubPanel|posting]] process is the act of assigning those posts to [[Posts Categories SubPanel|categories]].  Each post in WordPress is filed under one or more ''categories''.  ''Categories'' can be hierarchical in nature, where one category acts as a parent to several child, or grandchild, categories.  Thoughtful ''categorization'' allows posts of similar content to be grouped, thereby aiding viewers in the navigation, and use of a site.  In addition to categories, terms or keywords called [[Posts Tags SubPanel|tags]] can be assigned to each post.  ''Tags'' act as another navigation tool, but are not hierarchical in nature.  Both categories and tags are part of a system called [[Glossary#Taxonomy|taxonomies]].  If categories and tags are not enough, users can also create [[Function_Reference/register_taxonomy|custom taxonomies]] that allow more specific identification of posts or pages or [[Glossary#Post_Type|custom post types]].   

In turn, post categories and tags are two of the elements of what's called [[Post Meta Data Section|post meta data]].  ''Post meta data'' refers to the information associated with each post and includes the author's name and the date posted as well as the post categories.  ''Post meta data'' also refers to [[Custom Fields]] where you assign specific words, or keys, that can describe posts.  But, you can't mention ''post meta data'' without discussing the term '''meta'''.  

Generally, [[Glossary#Meta|meta]] means '''"information about"'''; in WordPress, ''meta'' usually refers to '''administrative'''-type information.  So, besides ''post meta data'', ''Meta'' is the [[Glossary#HTML|HTML]] tag used to describe and define a web page to the outside world, like ''meta tag keywords'' for search engines.   Also, many WordPress-based sites offer a ''Meta'' section, usually found in the [[Customizing Your Sidebar|sidebar]], with links to login or register at that site.  And, don't forget [[Codex:Guidelines#Meta Rules|Meta Rules]]: The rules defining the general protocol to follow in using this Codex, or ''Meta,'' as in the [http://www.mediawiki.org MediaWiki] [http://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Namespace namespace] that refers to administrative functions within Codex.  That's a lot of ''Meta''!

After a post is made public, a blog's readers will respond, via [[Glossary#Comments|comments]], to that post, and in turn, authors will reply.  ''Comments'' enable the communication process, that give-and-take, between author and reader.  ''Comments'' are the life-blood of most blogs.

Finally, WordPress also offers two other [[Glossary#Content Management System|content management tools]] called [[Pages|Pages]] and [[Glossary#Post_Type|custom post types]].  ''Pages'' often present static information, such as "About Me", or "Contact Us", ''Pages''.  Typically "timeless" in nature, ''Pages'' should not be confused with the time-oriented objects called ''posts''. Interestingly, a ''Page'' is allowed to be [[Glossary#Comments|commented upon]], but a ''Page'' cannot be [[Posts Categories SubPanel|categorized]]. A [[Glossary#Post_Type|custom post type]] refers to a type of structured data that is different from a post or a page.  Custom post types allow users to easily create and manage such things as portfolios, projects, video libraries, podcasts, quotes, chats, and whatever a user or developer can imagine.

===Terminology Related to Design===
The ''flexibility'' of WordPress is apparent when discussing terminology related to the [[Blog Design and Layout|design]] of a WordPress blog.  At the core of WordPress, developers created a programming structure named [[The Loop]] to handle the processing of posts.  ''The Loop'' is the critical [[Glossary#PHP|PHP]] program code used to display ''posts''.  Anyone wanting to enhance and '''customize''' WordPress will need to understand [[The Loop in Action|the mechanics of ''The Loop'']].

Along with The Loop, WordPress developers have created [[Template Tags]] which are a group of PHP functions that can be invoked by designers to perform an action or display specific information.  It is the ''Template Tags'' that form the basis of the [[Templates|Template]] Files.  ''Templates (files)'' contain the programming pieces, such as ''Template Tags'', that control the structure and flow of a WordPress site.  These files draw information from your WordPress [[Glossary#MySQL|MySQL]] [[Database_Description|database]] and generate the [[Glossary#HTML|HTML]] code which is sent to the web browser.  A [[Template Hierarchy]], in essence the order of processing, dictates how ''Templates'' control almost all aspects of the output, including [[Designing Headings|Headers]], [[Customizing Your Sidebar|Sidebars]], and [[Introduction_to_Blogging#Archives|Archives]].  ''Archives'' are a dynamically generated list of posts, and are typically grouped by [[Creating an Archive Index|date]], [[Category Templates|category]], [[Tag_Templates|tag]], or [[Author_Templates|author]].  
 
Templates and Template Tags are two of the pieces used in the composition of a WordPress [[Using Themes|Theme]].  A ''Theme'' is the overall design of a site and encompasses color, graphics, and text.  A ''Theme'' is sometimes called the '''skin'''.  With the recent advances in WordPress, [[Theme Development]] is a hot topic.  WordPress-site owners have available a [http://wordpress.org/extend/themes/ long list of Themes] to choose from in deciding what to present to their sites' viewers.  In fact, with the use of a [http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/theme-switcher-reloaded/ Theme Switcher Revisited Plugin], WordPress designers can allow their visitors to select their own ''Theme''.  

As the capabilities of WordPress have improved, developers have added tools that allow users to easily manage a site's look and functionality:  

* '''Widgets''' provide an easy way to add little programs, such as the current weather, to a sidebar. 
* '''Menus''' make it easy to define the navigation buttons that are typically present near the top of a site's pages.  
* The '''Background''' tool allows the user to change the background image and color of a site.
* The '''Header''' tool gives the user control of the images displayed at the top of a site's various pages.  
* [[Post Formats|Formats]] allow the user to control the display of a specific post (i.e. display this post as an Aside or as a quote or as a gallery). The {{DefaultTheme}} is an excellent example of a theme that uses these tools.

And speaking of the {{DefaultTheme}}, developers and users are encouraged to explore that theme in detail.  The {{DefaultTheme}}, developed by the WordPress community, demonstrates the use of tools such as Menus and Widgets, provides examples of recommended theme coding techniques, and emphasizes the use of the [[Child Themes|Child Theme]] concept to shield a theme from getting overwritten during a WordPress update.

[[Plugins|Plugins]] are custom functions created to extend the core functionality of WordPress.  The WordPress developers have maximized flexibility and minimized code bloat by allowing outside developers the opportunity to create their own useful add-on features.  As evidenced by the [http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/ Plugin Directory], there's a ''Plugin'' to enhance virtually every aspect of WordPress.  A [[Plugins Add New SubPanel|Plugin management tool]] makes it extremely easy to find and install Plugins.

===Terminology for the Administrator===
Another set of terms to examine are those involving the [[Administering Your Blog|Administration]] of a WordPress site.  A comprehensive set of [[Administration Panels]] enables users to '''easily''' administer and monitor their blog.   A WordPress administrator has a number of powers which include requiring a visitor to register in order to participate in the blog, who can create new posts, whether comments can be left, and if files can be uploaded to the blog.  An Administrator also defines [[Links Add New SubPanel|Links]] and the associated [[Links_Link_Categories_SubPanel|Link Categories]] which are an important part of a blog's connection to the outside world.

Some of the main administrative responsibilities of a WordPress blog involve adding, deleting, and managing [[Registered User Features|Registered Users]].  Administering users means controlling [[Roles and Capabilities]], or permissions.  '''Roles''' control what functions a registered ''user'' can perform as those functions can range from just being able to login at a blog to performing the role administrator.  

Another chief concern for the blog administrator is [[Comment Moderation]].  [[Glossary#Comments|Comments]], also called [[Discussion Options|discussions]], are responses to posts left for the post author by the visitor and represent an important part of "the give and take" of a blog.  But ''Comments'' must be [[Combating Comment Spam|patrolled]] for [[Glossary#Spam|Spam]] and other malicious intentions.  The WordPress Administration [[Comments_Comments_SubPanel|Comments SubPanel]] simplifies that process with easy-to-use screens which add, change, and delete Comments.

And not to be forgotten is the obligation for an administrator to keep their WordPress current to insure that the latest features, bugs, and security fixes are in effect.  To accomodate administrators, WordPress has a simple [[Tools Upgrade SubPanel|Upgrade Tool]] to download and install the lastest version of WordPress.  There's no excuse to not upgrade!

===The Terminology of Help===
The final set of ''jargon'' relates to '''helping''' you with WordPress.  First and foremost is the hanging Help tab that is displayed under each of the [[Administration_Panels#Help Administration Panels|Administration SubPanels]].  That contextual help describes the function and use of the current SubPanel and provides links to other help topics.  And, there are other ''help'' resources available to WordPress users; [[Getting More Help]],  [[Finding WordPress Help]], [[Troubleshooting]], and [[FAQ|WordPress FAQ (frequently asked questions)]] are good starting points.  Also [[Getting Started with WordPress]] will '''jump-start''' readers into the world of WordPress and the excellent [[WordPress Lessons]] provide in-depth '''tutorials''' on many of the aspects of using WordPress.  Among the most important resources is the [[Using the Support Forums|WordPress Support Forum]] where '''knowledgeable''' volunteers answer your questions and help solve any problems related to WordPress.  And, of course, this [[Help:Contents|Codex]] which is filled with hundreds of articles designed to make your WordPress experience a success!

==History of the WordPress Name==
Besides the technical terminology of WordPress, it is also interesting to know the history of the name, WordPress.  The name "WordPress" was originally coined by [http://www.bigpinkcookie.com Christine Selleck] ([http://avengerofsexiness.com/next-i-save-the-world/ see related post]) in response to [[Copyright Holders|developer]] [[User:Matt|Matthew Mullenweg's]] desire to associate his new software project with [http://www.etymonline.com/index.php?term=press printing presses].  In this sense, '''press''' refers to the world of reporters, journalists, columnists, and photographers.  An aptly chosen name, because WordPress serves as the printing press that enables its users to publish their words.

==More Information and Resources==

===See Also===
* [[Glossary|The WordPress Glossary]]
* [[WordPress Features]]
* [[Advanced Topics]]
* [[Mailing Lists]]
* [http://wordpress.org/support WordPress Support Forum]
* [[Special:Popularpages|Popular Codex Articles]]
* [[Special:Allpages|All Codex Articles]]

===External Links===
* [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Wide_Web World Wide Web @ Wikipedia]
* [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tim_Berners-Lee Tim Berners-Lee creator of the World Wide Web @ Wikipedia]
* [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semantic_Web The Semantic Web @ Wikipedia]
* [http://www.w3.org/ World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) homepage] 
* [http://www.w3.org/Consortium/ About the World Wide Web Consortium]
* [http://webstandards.org/ Web Standards Project]


[[Category:WordPress Lessons]]
[[Category:WordPress Help]]
[[Category:Design and Layout]]
[[Category:Troubleshooting]]
[[Category:Russian Codex]]