{{Languages|
{{en|Meta Tags in WordPress}}
{{ru|Тег Meta в WordPress}}
}}
{{ru:Stub}}
__TOC__
Когда поисковик исследует ваш сайт, он собирает информацию из названия, заголовки, содержания и мета-тегов, таких как описание или ключевые слова. Он сравнивает слова в каждом из этих разделов и "котировка" сайта зависит от того, насколько хорошо информация совпадает. У нас есть больше информации о том, как максимально полно использовать  мета  теги ниже.

Важно, чтобы разработчики веб-сайтов поняли, что "'установка по умолчанию WordPress не содержат описание и ключевые слова данных мета-тегов "'. Мета теги могут быть добавлены вручную, путем внесения изменений в файлы шаблонов Темы , или с помощью Плагинов WordPress..

==Что такое Мета Тэги?==

Слово "  meta " означает "информация о". ""Мета Теги" " были созданы изначально для предоставления краткой информации о сайте. Мета-теги перечисляют информацию о веб-странице, такую как автор, ключевые слова, описание, тип документа, авторские права и другие основные сведения.

Это пример мета-тега ''description'' ("описание"):

<pre>&lt;meta name="description" content="Это
описание фразы или короткий параграф о
статье или записи (посте)." /&gt;</pre>


Наиболее распространёные  '''мета теги'''. Примеры :

<pre>&lt;meta name="resource-type" content="document" /&gt;
&lt;meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=US-ASCII" /&gt;
&lt;meta http-equiv="content-language" content="en-us" /&gt;
&lt;meta name="author" content="Harriet Smith" /&gt;
&lt;meta name="contact" content="harrietsmith@harrietsmith.us" /&gt;
&lt;meta name="copyright" content="Copyright (c)1997-2004 
Harriet Smith. All Rights Reserved." /&gt;
&lt;meta name="description" content="Story about my dog 
giving birth to puppies." /&gt;
&lt;meta name="keywords" content="stories, tales, harriet, smith, 
harriet smith, storytelling, day, life, dog, birth, puppies, happy" /&gt;</pre>

===Почему Мета-теги пропали ?===

В установке по умолчанию, WordPress не включают в себя ''' мета-тегов''', таких как '''описание''' и '''ключевые слова'''. Почему? Хорошо, давайте посмотрим на приведенные выше теги.
 
Вообще,метатеги размещаются в блоке head, может быть несколько метатегов.Атрибуты метатегов имеют вид "имя=значение". Причём, атрибут content описывает значение стоящего перед ним атрибута.

Так, в приведённом выше примере второй тег задает кодировку страницы и третий тег задает язык. 
В частности, этот пример устанавливает кодировку, в которой будет  стиль английского языка,  как в Соединенных Штатах, с использованием набора символов ASCII. Это означает, что страница, вероятно,будет иметь написание, как «center», а не «centre» и «humor», а не «humour».  Это также дает информацию в браузер, чтобы определять символы не как  китайские. 
Далее,атрибуты author и contact information описывают конкретного человека; арибут description
содержит информацию уникальную информацию о конкретной записи (посте); keywords -- содержит слова,имеющиеся в данной записи (посте). Вы понимаете структуру?

Все это уникальная информация. WordPress может сделать некоторые магические вещи, но он не может читать ваши мысли. Если вы хотите предоставить поисковым системам более полную информацию, которая является  специфичной для ваших веб-страниц, вы должны добавить данные мета-тегов самостоятельно.

===Являются ли мета-теги необходимыми?===

Хороший вопрос. Раньше мета-теги были более полезными, обеспечивая важную информацию для интернет-браузера. Когда браузеры стали более изощренными,необходимость в  мета тегах отпала, чтобы  выяснить ,например, что ваш сайт написан на английском или китайском языке.
A good question to ask is if meta tags are ''still'' necessary.  They used to be more helpful, providing important information to the Internet browser. As browsers became more sophisticated, they stopped needing a lot of hand holding in order to figure out if your site is in English or Chinese.

Но Google больше не использует мета-теги в рейтинге результатов поиска и google подтверждает это здесь [http://googlewebmastercentral.blogspot.com/2009/09/google-does-not-use-keywords-meta-tag.html Webmaster Central Blog].
Some search engines don't use the meta tag information any more because many people abused it. In fact, meta tags may not represent the content of your site, but, it still doesn't hurt your status with search engines if you make use of these little bits of information, and do so truthfully. Furthermore, Google does still use the meta description tag [https://support.google.com/webmasters/bin/answer.py?hl=en&answer=79812 in some situations] as part of the snippet of your site displayed in search results.

Without a doubt, content is the biggest contributor to search engine page ranking, so if you want to raise your rankings, make sure you have quality content.

Covering all the reasons meta tags are and aren't important to search engines is beyond the scope of this article. In the [[#Meta Tag Resources|Resource section below]] are some links to more information on meta tags and their impact on search engines.

==Putting Meta Tags Back In==

To add meta tags to your site, simply add them to the <tt>header.php</tt> [[Templates|template file]] in your WordPress [[Using Themes|Theme]], specifically in the <tt>head</tt> section near the link for the style sheet.  At the top you will see the <tt>DOCTYPE</tt> tag and below that you will see a couple more tags and then the <tt>&lt;title&gt;</tt> tag, looking something like this:

 &lt;title&gt;&lt;?php bloginfo('name'); ?&gt;&lt;?php wp_title(); ?&gt;&lt;/title&gt;

Below this line you can add your meta tags.  You can add meta tag information such as the content, language, author, contact, and copyright, since these are basically the same on every page of your site.

But what about the 'dynamic' types of information such as description and keywords?  This information is unique to every web page on your site.  Putting them in the <tt>header.php</tt> means the information won't change throughout your site.

What you need is something to dynamically add keywords and descriptions on a per-post basis.  To add a description, keywords, and other meta tags that are unique to each post or [[Pages|Page]] generated, you have two choices:  you can add them as generic references or you can use plugins.

===Generic Meta Tags===

If you have a clear [[First_Steps_With_WordPress#Planning_Session|purpose for your website]], then you can use that information to create ''generic meta tags'' and place these in your header.  Let's say Harriet Smith is a veterinarian, and enjoys sharing her animal stories on her WordPress blog.

A '''description''' meta tag that would describe all of her posts might be:

<pre>&lt;meta name="description" content="Special stories and 
tales about dogs, cats, birds, ferrets, and other 
domestic animals as told by Harriet Smith, 
veterinarian. Stories include tales of animal 
bravery and courage, life and death, companionship, 
and the wonderful joy animals and pets bring to 
their human partners." /&gt;</pre>

If Harriet writes a story about a dog giving birth in the middle of a hurricane, and accompanying the dog were two humans who risked their lives to stay with the dog during the delivery, the descriptive words of bravery and courage, life and death, pets and human, would surely apply.  Another story about an animal that returns home to its owner after missing for 5 years might also be described with the words of bravery, courage, life, death, and companionship.

From these two stories, Harriet could create a good generic set of '''keywords''':

<pre>&lt;meta name="keywords" content="stories, tales, 
harriet, smith, harriet smith, storytelling, veterinarian, 
vets, animal doctor, bravery, brave, courage, life, lives, 
death, dying, pets, human, companionship, dog, cat, birds, 
ferrets, pets, pet, birth, puppies" /&gt;</pre>

With these generic '''description''' and '''keywords''' meta tags, Harriet's website would be accurately described and that should please just about any search engine.

This is the manual style of adding a description, but WordPress can make this easier for you.  Add your description, similar to above, in your '''Admin > Options > General''' panel. The description is entered in the line designated as '''Tagline'''. Then paste in the following in your <tt>head</tt> area.

 <meta name="description" content="<?php bloginfo('description'); ?>" />

WordPress will automatically generate the description.  '''Note:''' Some Themes use this tag in the header just below the title of the blog or site.  If you don't want it there, remove or comment out the tag in the [[Designing Headers|header area]].

To get more sophisticated, you can add a [[Conditional Tags|conditional tag query]] that asks "If this is a single post view, show the post title; if this is a multi-post view, show the blog name and description." The conditional tag query looks like this:

<pre><meta name="description" content="<?php if ( is_single() ) {
        single_post_title('', true); 
    } else {
        bloginfo('name'); echo " - "; bloginfo('description');
    }
    ?>" /></pre>

===Using Meta Tag Plugins===

There are several [[Plugins]] that allow the blog administrator to set the keywords, description, and other meta tags to be unique on each post.  These plugins make use of the [[Custom Fields]] in the [[Administration_Panels#Write_Post|Write Post Panel]].  You can find meta tag Plugins in the [http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/ Official WordPress Plugin Directory].

Using Meta Tag Plugins allows you to customize each of your meta tags, and to choose the ones you want to add, or not, on a per-post basis.  This allows your meta information to better describe each page.

==Meta Tag Resources==

Here are some sites that will help you learn more about meta tags, how they work, and why you should or shouldn't use them.

*[http://googlewebmastercentral.blogspot.com/2009/09/google-does-not-use-keywords-meta-tag.html Google does not use the keywords meta tag in web ranking]
*[http://www.lib.berkeley.edu/TeachingLib/Guides/Internet/SearchEngines.html UC Berkeley's Guide to Search Engines]
*[http://searchenginewatch.com/article/2067564/How-To-Use-HTML-Meta-Tags Search Engine Watch's How to Use HTML Meta Tags]
*[http://www.webdeveloper.com/html/html_metatags.html WebDeveloper's Back to Basics: Meta Tags]
*[http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-html40/struct/global.html#h-7.4.4 W3 Organization's Global Structure of an HTML Document and Meta Tags]
*[http://www.askapache.com/seo/wordpress-robotstxt-optimized-for-seo.html header.php code and tutorial] outputs the correct robots, googlebot, and msnbot meta depending on page, single, home, archive.
*[http://netotraffic.com/meta-tag-seo/ Meta Tags for SEO- A Complete Guide]

[[Category:WordPress Help]]
[[Category:WordPress Lessons]]
[[Category:Russian Codex]]