{{Nháp}} {{Vietnamese_Category}} [[Category:vi:Giao Diện]]

== Mô tả ==
Hiển thị bài viết hiện tại của bạn, trong quá khứ, tương lai. Bằng cách sử dụng một giao diện. Thẻ này phải nằm trong [[The_Loop]].

nếu  quicktag <tt>&lt;!--more--&gt;</tt> được sử dụng thì ngay tại vị trí đó, bài viết sẽ bị cắt cho các phần trích dẫn, thẻ the_content() sẽ chỉ hiển thị các đoạn trích dẫn của bài viết trang đó <tt>&lt;!--more--&gt;</tt> tại vị trí quicktag trang không đánh số (0)và không có link tới nó tại mặc định [[Glossary#Permalink|permalink]] của trang và bài viết.  Theo thiết kế, thẻ <tt>the_content()</tt> bao gồm một tham số định dạng trước <tt>&lt;!--more--&gt;</tt> Nội dung cà tìm kiếm, với việc tạo link gắn với "continue reading" để xem tất cả nội dung bài.

:'''Lưu ý điều này <tt>&lt;!--more--&gt;</tt>''' :
:* Không có một khoảng trắng nào được chấp nhận trong '''trước''' và "nhiều" hơn trong thẻ <tt>&lt;!--more--&gt;</tt> quicktag. Nói cách khác <tt>&lt;!-- more --&gt;</tt> sẽ ''không'' làm việc!
:* ''The <tt>&lt;!--more--&gt;</tt> quicktag sẽ được bỏ qua trong single.php [[Templates]], chẳng hạn như'''single.php''', chỉ có một bài hiển thị.''
:* đọc [[Tùy chỉnh thêm]] để biết rõ thông tin.


--> được dịch bởi '''Hoàng Huynh''' (http://hoanghuynh.net) nếu có sai sót gì, anh em vui lòng sửa lại giùm mình!

== Cách dùng ==

%%%<?php the_content('more_link_text', strip_teaser, 'more_file'); ?>%%%

''Alternatively'', you may use [[Function Reference/get_the_content|get_the_content]] to return the content value instead of outputting it directly.  Example:

%%%<?php $content = get_the_content(); ?>%%%

'''Please note!''' [[Function Reference/get_the_content|get_the_content]] will not have the following done to it and you are advised to add them until the core has been updated:

%%%<?php
$content = apply_filters('the_content', $content);
$content = str_replace(']]>', ']]&gt;', $content);
?>%%%

== Ví dụ ==

=== Designating the "More" Text ===

Displays the content of the post and uses "Read more..." for the more link text when the <tt>&lt;!--more--&gt;</tt> Quicktag is used.

 <?php the_content('Read more...'); ?>

=== Include Title in "More" ===

Similar to the above example, but thanks to [[Template Tags/the title|the_title()]] tag and the ''display'' parameter, it can show "Continue reading ''ACTUAL POST TITLE''" when the <tt>&lt;!--more--&gt;</tt> Quicktag is used.

 <?php the_content("Continue reading " . the_title(&#39;&#39;, &#39;&#39;, false)); ?>

=== Overriding Archive/Single Page Behavior ===

If the_content() isn't working as you desire (displaying the entire story when you only want the content above the <tt>&lt;!--more--&gt;</tt> Quicktag, for example) you can override the behavior with global $more.

 <?php 
 // Declare global $more, before the loop.
 global $more;
 ?>

 <?php
 // Display content above the more tag
 $more = 0;
 the_content("More...");
 ?>

Alternatively, if you need to display all of the content:

 <?php 
 // Declare global $more, before the loop.
 global $more;
 ?>

 <?php
 // Display all content, including text below more
 $more = 1;
 the_content();
 ?>

note: in my case I had to set  $more=0; INSIDE the loop for it to work.

== Parameters ==

; more_link_text : (''string'') The link text to display for the "more" link. Defaults to <tt>'(more...)'</tt>.
; strip_teaser : (''boolean'') Should the text before the "more" link be hidden (<tt>TRUE</tt>) or displayed (<tt>FALSE</tt>). Defaults to <tt>FALSE</tt>.
; more_file : (''string'') File the "more" link points to. Defaults to the current file. (V2.0: Currently the 'more_file' parameter doesn't work).

== Related ==

{{Tag Post Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}