{{Nháp}} {{Vietnamese Category}} [[Category:vi:Giao Diện]]

== Description ==

Displays the excerpt of the current post with [...] at the end, which is not a "read more" link.  If you do not provide an explicit excerpt to a post (in the post editor's optional excerpt field), it will display a [[Glossary#Excerpt|teaser]] which refers to the first 55 words of the post's content. Also in the latter case, [[Glossary#HTML|HTML]] tags and graphics are stripped from the excerpt's content. This tag must be within [[The Loop]].

If the current post is an attachment, such as in the attachment.php and image.php template loops, then the attachment caption is displayed.  Captions do not include the excerpt [...] marks.

== Sử dụng ==

%%% <?php the_excerpt(); ?> %%%

== Ví dụ ==

=== Default Usage ===

Displays the post excerpt. Used on non-single/non-permalink posts as a replacement for [[Template_Tags/the_content|the_content()]] to force excerpts to show within the Loop.

 <?php the_excerpt(); ?>

=== Use with Conditional Tags ===

Replaces the_content() tag with the_excerpt() when on archive (tested by <tt>is_archive()</tt>) or category (<tt>is_category()</tt>) pages.

Both the examples below work for versions 1.5 and above.

%%% <?php if(is_category() || is_archive()) {
 	the_excerpt();
 } else {
 	the_content();
 } ?> %%%

For versions of WordPress prior to 1.5, only the following will work : 

%%% <?php if($cat || $m) {
 	the_excerpt();
 } else {
 	the_content();
 } ?> %%%

== Tham số ==

Tag này không có tham số.

== So sánh giữa the_excerpt() và the_content() ==

Sometimes is more meaningful to use only [[Template_Tags/the_content|the_content()]] function. [[Template_Tags/the_content|the_content()]] sẽ quyết định những gì được hiển thị mặc dù tag %%%<!--more-->%%% được sử dụng.

Tag %%%<!--more-->%%% tách bài viết/trang thành hai phần: chỉ có nội dung trước tag được hiển thị.

Lưu ý: %%%<!--more-->%%% sẽ được bỏ qua khi hiển thị bài viết/page ở chế độ xem đầy đủ.

== Liên quan ==

{{Tag Post Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:vi:UI Link]]