<p>[17:06] &lt;photomatt&gt; &lt;meetup&gt;
<br />[17:06] &lt;photomatt&gt; first topic, bug hunt!
<br />[17:06] &lt;photomatt&gt; take it away, mr boren
<br />[17:07] &lt;rboren&gt; Yeah, let's, like, do one.
<br />[17:07] &lt;rboren&gt; Could be combines 2.0.4 and 2.1.
<br />[17:08] &lt;rboren&gt; Both are pretty usable right now.
<br />[17:08] * Joins: mdawaffe
<br />[17:09] &lt;rboren&gt; Suggestions for date/time?
<br />[17:09] &lt;photomatt&gt; are both milestones pretty clean in terms of what's left to do?
<br />[17:09] &lt;rboren&gt; 2.0.4 is pretty settled.
<br />[17:09] &lt;photomatt&gt; how about next tuesday or wednseday?
<br />[17:09] &lt;rboren&gt; 2.1 doesn't have much outstanding.
<br />[17:09] &lt;rboren&gt; Sounds good.
<br />[17:10] &lt;rboren&gt; Do it on meetup day and then have a progress report during the meetup.
<br />[17:10] &lt;rboren&gt; We need to update the bug hunt page to mention 2.04. and 2.1.
<br />[17:10] &lt;rboren&gt; And update the date.
<br />[17:10] &lt;Podz&gt; forum post?
<br />[17:11] &lt;rboren&gt; Yep.
<br />[17:11] &lt;Podz&gt; wil do
<br />[17:11] &lt;photomatt&gt; dev blog post?
<br />[17:11] &lt;photomatt&gt; would probably get more exposure
<br />[17:11] &lt;rboren&gt; Sure, we keep saying we need to use that thing.
<br />[17:11] &lt;photomatt&gt; and the dev blog needs an update anyway
<br />[17:11] &lt;photomatt&gt; get that april fools off there
<br />[17:11] &lt;photomatt&gt; rboren: can you check that you have publish on the dev blog?
<br />[17:14] &lt;rboren&gt; Can't even login in right now.
<br />[17:15] &lt;rboren&gt; Been awhile since I tried.
<br />[17:17] &lt;photomatt&gt; okay we can figure that out
<br />[17:18] &lt;rboren&gt; So, we need to update the codex page, make forum and dev blog announcements, make snapshots for both 2.0.4 and 2.1, and ...?
<br />[17:18] &lt;photomatt&gt; try a password reset
<br />[17:19] &lt;ringmaster&gt; Look!  A pterodactyl!
<br />[17:20] &lt;rboren&gt; I'm in.
<br />[17:20] &lt;photomatt&gt; heh
<br />[17:20] &lt;photomatt&gt; okay
<br />[17:24] &lt;rboren&gt; I'll take care of all of the bug hunt stuff.  What's next?
<br />[17:24] &lt;photomatt&gt; a topic from MarkJ, but he's not around
<br />[17:25] &lt;ringmaster&gt; I think the topic is familiar enough to cover at least briefly to get people here to think on it.
<br />[17:26] &lt;ringmaster&gt; It's regarding <a rel="nofollow" class="external free" href="http://trac.wordpress.org/ticket/2531">http://trac.wordpress.org/ticket/2531</a> and photomatt's suggestions for altering the caps system.
<br />[17:28] &lt;ringmaster&gt; Having had the discussion a few times on IRC and via some email and Trac, I agree with Mark on two points: That the current system can be made to work well, and that hardcoding caps/roles into the core is a bad idea.
<br />[17:28] &lt;photomatt&gt; okay
<br />[17:30] &lt;photomatt&gt; anybody want to comment on that?
<br />[17:31] &lt;ringmaster&gt; Since no further comment has been made on it by core devs as to what the road ahead is, nobody has been producing any code in that area.
<br />[17:31] &lt;rboren&gt; I'm a bit too tired to think about it.  I do think it can wait for 2.2 where we can make it a focus.
<br />[17:32] &lt;ringmaster&gt; rboren: That seems a reasonable course of action, even if there are a few things left undone that we could do for 2.1, such as the caps2users/user2caps suggestion Mark had.
<br />[17:33] &lt;rboren&gt; Right.  I kinda just want to firm up 2.1 and get it before it slips to far into the year.
<br />[17:33] &lt;rboren&gt; get it out
<br />[17:35] * Quits: skippy ("Leaving"ï¿½)
<br />[17:36] &lt;ringmaster&gt; Ok, so no changes for 2.1 then.  And then we can discuss what 2.2 might hold?
<br />[17:37] &lt;rboren&gt; Sounds good.
<br />[17:37] &lt;rboren&gt; Everybody cogitate and be ready.
<br />[17:38] &lt;ringmaster&gt; I don't think it will pain Mark to hear that.  And that's all I have to say today. &#160;:)
<br />[17:38] * Joins: undersigned
<br />[17:39] &lt;undersigned&gt; meetup over?
<br />[17:39] &lt;PotterSys&gt; undersigned: almost
<br />[17:39] &lt;undersigned&gt; mkay
<br />[17:39] &lt;undersigned&gt;&#160;:)
<br />[17:39] &lt;rboren&gt; I tweaked the Bug Hunt page a bit.  Feel free to make it prettier.  If you want to help host the hunt put your name in the "IRC Bug Hunt Hosts" section.
<br />[17:39] &lt;rboren&gt; <a rel="nofollow" class="external free" href="http://codex.wordpress.org/WordPress_Bug_Hunts">http://codex.wordpress.org/WordPress_Bug_Hunts</a>
<br />[17:39] &lt;photomatt&gt; yeah I don't really feel like talking about caps either
<br />[17:40] &lt;photomatt&gt; rboren: cool
<br />[17:40] &lt;photomatt&gt; rboren: why don't we start with a ping to wp-hackers
<br />[17:40] &lt;photomatt&gt; a post to dev blog tomorrow should still be enough time
<br />[17:40] &lt;photomatt&gt; it can be a 24-hour event
<br />[17:41] &lt;rboren&gt; Hopefully those in the US won't be too burnt out from July 4th the previous day.
<br />[17:41] &lt;ringmaster&gt; photomatt: At some point talking about caps will become necessary though, and I hope that it gets discussed instead of mandated by dev fiat.
<br />[17:42] &lt;photomatt&gt; it's not really a discussion when people are stubborn, so yes, I hope it is discussed
<br />[17:42] &lt;ringmaster&gt; Well, when you stop being stubborn and discuss it, that'll be cool.
<br />[17:42] &lt;photomatt&gt; you're quite the charmer
<br />[17:43] &lt;photomatt&gt; anything else for the meetup?
<br />[17:43] &lt;ringmaster&gt; Anything else we can ignore?  Why bother.
<br />[17:43] * Parts: ringmaster
<br />[17:44] &lt;photomatt&gt; on that note
<br />[17:44] &lt;photomatt&gt; let's call it
<br />[17:44] &lt;undersigned&gt;&#160;:)
<br />[17:44] &lt;undersigned&gt; yay, got my smiley in the logs
<br />[17:44] &lt;photomatt&gt; actually one more thing
<br />[17:45] &lt;photomatt&gt; undersigned: could you talk briefly about the theme comp you are thinking about?
<br />[17:45] &lt;undersigned&gt; sure&#160;:)
<br />[17:45] &lt;undersigned&gt; i have written a blog post at <a rel="nofollow" class="external free" href="http://theundersigned.net/2006/06/wordpress-theme-competition/">http://theundersigned.net/2006/06/wordpress-theme-competition/</a>
<br />[17:46] &lt;undersigned&gt; i have taken some time to contact different companies etc, to collect prizes enough to create a good prize pool for a new theme competition
<br />[17:46] &lt;photomatt&gt; why do you think the last theme comp failed, and how will this one be better?
<br />[17:46] &lt;undersigned&gt; i think the wp community is great etc etc - but i have been really dissapointed over the last two competitions
<br />[17:47] &lt;undersigned&gt; the first was fake, the second was unorganized, and as far as i have heard, many of the prizes sponsored for the last competition was never claimed from the sponsors
<br />[17:47] &lt;undersigned&gt; the last competition included both previously released themes, theme mods and a design rip, and i missed a lot more organizing&#160;:/
<br />[17:48] &lt;undersigned&gt; well.. David posted this on bloggingpro.com: <a rel="nofollow" class="external free" href="http://www.bloggingpro.com/archives/2006/06/23/wordpress-slowdown-and-a-challenge/">http://www.bloggingpro.com/archives/2006/06/23/wordpress-slowdown-and-a-challenge/</a>
<br />[17:48] &lt;undersigned&gt; and i agree
<br />[17:49] &lt;undersigned&gt; i planned the competition before that post, but it tells me that others think the same&#160;:/
<br />[17:49] &lt;photomatt&gt; gotcha
<br />[17:49] &lt;photomatt&gt; I agree the last one was a bit of a disappointment
<br />[17:49] &lt;photomatt&gt; it's a ton of time commitment, are you up for it?
<br />[17:50] &lt;undersigned&gt; i am working out a rule set (no themes based on other themes - mods, no pre-released themes, semantic markup/valid design as far as possible etc)
<br />[17:50] &lt;undersigned&gt; well, i already use a lot of time keeping the theme viewer clean from duplicates, and updating themes for people etc
<br />[17:50] &lt;undersigned&gt; i get 10-20 mails from the theme viewer form every day
<br />[17:50] &lt;undersigned&gt; i guess this wouldn't be near as hectic&#160;:)
<br />[17:51] &lt;photomatt&gt; what can be done to make this round even more kick-ass?
<br />[17:51] &lt;undersigned&gt; better prize pool will encourage more to join
<br />[17:52] &lt;undersigned&gt; im trying to create interest by blogging a little about it etc.
<br />[17:53] &lt;undersigned&gt; the prizes so far is quantity, but no real catches.. we are talking licenses for various apps, books, 1-year hosting offers, icon buffet downloads etc
<br />[17:53] &lt;tunicwriter&gt; Maybe since you guys do want to use that handy dev blog of yours, you can kick up some interest using that, too...
<br />[17:54] &lt;photomatt&gt; I like the sound of that
<br />[17:54] &lt;photomatt&gt; also I like that this one is being run by someone who is known within the WP community, I still feel silly about blogging that first theme comp
<br />[17:54] &lt;undersigned&gt; i am still contacting people and hope to get some good prizes.. competition will be covered on both the theme viewer and my blog .. = avg 5000+ unique daily visitors.. sponsors will indeed get publicity
<br />[17:55] &lt;undersigned&gt; thx matt&#160;:)
<br />[17:55] &lt;photomatt&gt; I'd be happy to kick in some sponsorship
<br />[17:55] &lt;undersigned&gt; fantastic!
<br />[17:56] &lt;undersigned&gt; david from bloggingpro might sponsor some too he mentioned, as well as cover it
<br />[17:56] &lt;undersigned&gt; i have contacts within the UK .net magazine too
<br />[17:56] &lt;undersigned&gt; and am in contact with layermagazine
<br />[17:57] &lt;undersigned&gt; i hope these will help too&#160;;)
<br />[17:57] &lt;photomatt&gt; sounds very nice
<br />[17:57] &lt;photomatt&gt; there aren't really any theme changes coming in 2.1
<br />[17:57] &lt;photomatt&gt; except for themes which directly query the posts DB
<br />[17:57] &lt;photomatt&gt; encouraging themes to be forward-compatible would be highly recommended
<br />[17:57] &lt;undersigned&gt; great
<br />[17:57] &lt;undersigned&gt; i will write that down
<br />[17:58] &lt;photomatt&gt; we haven't really made a decision about rolling in widgets yet or not
<br />[17:58] &lt;undersigned&gt; btw.. since 17th of june there has been over 72000 theme downloads from the viewer
<br />[17:59] &lt;undersigned&gt; ok, my personal opinion is go for it..
<br />[17:59] &lt;undersigned&gt; but i will encourage widget compatibility and plugin-wreapping anyways though
<br />[17:59] &lt;photomatt&gt; undersigned: I don't know if you saw, but I made the links to the theme viewer very prominent
<br />[17:59] &lt;photomatt&gt; on the extend page, for example
<br />[18:00] &lt;undersigned&gt; yea really nice!
<br />[18:02] &lt;undersigned&gt; what do you think about the wp.com prize idea..?
<br />[18:02] &lt;photomatt&gt; alrighty
<br />[18:02] &lt;photomatt&gt; any other topics?
<br />[18:03] &lt;PotterSys&gt; none here...
<br />[18:04] &lt;undersigned&gt; nope
<br />[18:06] &lt;photomatt&gt; okay!
<br />[18:06] &lt;photomatt&gt; &lt;/meetup&gt;
</p><p><a href="https://codex.wordpress.org/IRC_Meetups" title="IRC Meetups">Back to IRC Meetups</a>
</p>

