===22th February 2006===
====Topics====
* Review of [[WordPress Responsibilities]]--Defining various leader starting with a more definite project. Proposal to join all the language related section in a single International section. And adding coordination for plugin/theme I18N & localization. --[[User:SteveAgl|SteveAgl]] 20:22, 16 Feb 2006 (GMT)
* '''Tentative''' release dates for 2.0.2 and 2.1 [[User:MichaelH|MichaelH]] [[User_talk:MichaelH|(talk)]] 15:20, 22 Feb 2006 (GMT)
* Codex--what happened to [[Special:Popularpages]]? [[User:MichaelH|MichaelH]] [[User_talk:MichaelH|(talk)]] 14:12, 15 Feb 2006 (GMT)
* Wordpress Bounties? Something similar to the [http://www.ubuntu.com/developers/bounties?action=show&redirect=community%2Fbounties Canonical bounties], where people who need plugins / themes can post requests along with what they'd pay to see them developed. The idea is not for developers to get rich quick. It's so that a kid in highschool will be able to afford taking a week off packing groceries to code a neat plugin for the community. In the end, everyone benefits. This can be implemented via a forum / mailing list / wiki? [[User:Lastnode|Lastnode]] 11:14, 1 Feb 2006 (GMT) [[User:Ptryk|Ptryk]] 11:16, 1 Feb 2006 (GMT)
====Raw log====
:[[IRC_Meetups/2006/February/February22RawLog|Raw log for 02/22/06]]
===15th February 2006===
====Topics====
* Committors: is bg|commit still useful? It seems nowadays that Matt/Ryan just work their way through open bugs and I can't seem to find much correlation between bugs I/we've tagged as bg|commit and actual ones committed. [[User:DavidHouse|DavidHouse]] 11:34, 15 Feb 2006 (GMT)
* Related: would http://trac.wordpress.org/report/9 be more useful ordered by date and not grouped? [[User:DavidHouse|DavidHouse]] 11:34, 15 Feb 2006 (GMT)
* Codex--what happened to [[Special:Popularpages]]? [[User:MichaelH|MichaelH]] [[User_talk:MichaelH|(talk)]] 14:12, 15 Feb 2006 (GMT)
====Raw log====
:[[IRC_Meetups/2006/February/February15RawLog|Raw log for 02/15/06]]
===8th February 2006===
====Topics====
* Review of the [[User:Matt/WordPress_Responsibilities|WordPress Responsibilities]] along with discussion on format used in [[Testing/XML-RPC_and_Atom_API]] [[User:MichaelH|MichaelH]] [[User_talk:MichaelH|(talk)]] 21:27, 1 Feb 2006 (GMT)
*REST Webservices for WordPress vesion checking - The webservices used by this [http://trac.wordpress.org/ticket/1476 patch] no longer exist on wordpress.org can they be re-instated so the patch can be updated for 2.1 --[[User:Westi|Westi]] 16:59, 31 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* Wordpress Bounties? Something similar to the [http://www.ubuntu.com/developers/bounties?action=show&redirect=community%2Fbounties Canonical bounties], where people who need plugins / themes can post requests along with what they'd pay to see them developed. The idea is not for developers to get rich quick. It's so that a kid in highschool will be able to afford taking a week off packing groceries to code a neat plugin for the community. In the end, everyone benefits. This can be implemented via a forum / mailing list / wiki? [[User:Lastnode|Lastnode]] 11:14, 1 Feb 2006 (GMT) [[User:Ptryk|Ptryk]] 11:16, 1 Feb 2006 (GMT)
* Codex--what happened to Special:Popularpages?  [[User:MichaelH|MichaelH]] [[User_talk:MichaelH|(talk)]] 21:26, 1 Feb 2006 (GMT)
* Forums--status on problems described http://comox.textdrive.com/pipermail/wp-forums/2006-January/001225.html [[User:MichaelH|MichaelH]] [[User_talk:MichaelH|(talk)]] 21:26, 1 Feb 2006 (GMT)
* New Codex
====Raw log====
:[[IRC_Meetups/2006/February/February08RawLog|Raw log for 02/08/06]]


[[Category:Meetings]]