===25th January 2006===
====Topics====
* Review of the [[User:Matt/WordPress_Responsibilities|WordPress Responsibilities]]  [[User:MichaelH|MichaelH]] [[User_talk:MichaelH|(talk)]] 22:50, 18 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* One of you folks needs to submit a talk to the O'Reilly Open Source Software Convention (http://conferences.oreillynet.com/cs/os2006/create/e_sess/) about Wordpress, or about blogging in general.
* Can the wp-testers 'welcome' email be changed to point to the new nightlies location? We've had about four or five pointless emails now. Thanks. [[User:DavidHouse|DavidHouse]] 19:05, 24 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* WP 2.0.1 relase date - missing just one tickets but it's an obscure one - cause new WP can switch to old upload method this could be posponed to 2.1 ? --[[User:SteveAgl|SteveAgl]] 15:58, 25 Jan 2006 (GMT)
====Raw log====
:[[IRC_Meetups/2006/January/January25RawLog|Raw log for 01/25/06]]

===18th January 2006===
====Topics====
* Review of the [[User:Matt/WordPress_Responsibilities|WordPress Responsibilities]], few ppl volunteers, need to be more publicized. --[[User:SteveAgl|SteveAgl]] 17:26, 16 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* Related: can the Responsibilities list be sent to testers? We have a large source of people wanting to help out testing WordPress, they'd be a natural source of volunteers. Could we also publicise this on the devblog, perhaps draw in a few people who are looking to get involved in WordPress development? [[User:DavidHouse|DavidHouse]] 21:55, 16 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* Update: Work begins on Planet as requested last week, other parties with interest (if any) should contact me - sorry can't attend this week. --[[User:ringmaster|Ringmaster]] 22:08, 18 Jan 2006 (GMT)
====Raw log====
:[[IRC_Meetups/2006/January/January18RawLog|Raw log for 01/18/06]]

===11th January 2006===
====Topics====

* Updating Planet to use WordPress/FeedWordPress (so as to stop my spamming of PlanetPlanet)  --[[User:ringmaster|Ringmaster]] 02:33, 11 Jan 2006 (GMT)
* Scheduled ETA for WordPress 2.01 release ([[User:Skippy|skippy]] 20:35, 11 Jan 2006 (GMT))

====Raw log====
:[[IRC_Meetups/2006/January/January11RawLog|Raw log for 01/11/06]]

===4th January 2006===
====Topics====
* helping out with XMLRPC testing / testcases ([[stevecooley]])

====Raw log====
:[[IRC_Meetups/2006/January/January04RawLog|Raw log for 01/04/06]]

[[IRC Meetups|Back to IRC Meetups]]

[[Category:About WordPress]]
[[Category:Meetings]]
[[Category:WordPress Development]]