===June 28 2006===
====Topics====
* [[WordPress Bug Hunts|Bug Hunt]].  Let's set a date. [[User:Ryan|Ryan]] 21:23, 24 Jun 2006 (GMT)
* Discussion of future direction of Role/Cap System --[[User:MarkJaquith|MarkJaquith]] 06:54, 28 Jun 2006 (GMT)
** What is lacking? (e.g. easy cap2user, way to add new caps and give them to users)
** What should be axed? (e.g. per-user caps)
** What is the plan for 2.1, and what should be pushed off until 2.2?
====Raw log====
:[[IRC_Meetups/2006/June/June28RawLog|Raw log for 06/28/06]]
===June 21 2006===
====Topics====
* Just air
====Raw log====
:[[IRC_Meetups/2006/June/June21RawLog|Raw log for 06/21/06]]
===June 14 2006===
====Topics====
* Wordpress 2.0.4 --[[User:MarkJaquith|MarkJaquith]] 13:08, 13 Jun 2006 (GMT)
** Security issue necessitates an earlier release for 2.0.4
** Tentative date for beta release?
** Tentative date for final release?
** What bugs need to be fixed that aren't fixed already?
*** If any, who is going to tackle them?
*** wfw:commentRss change in 2.0.4? (Frick!)
* WordPress Trademark --[[User:ringmaster|Ringmaster]] 17:52, 14 Jun 2006 (GMT)
** Policy of "WordPress" use in service names same as in [http://wordpress.org/about/domains/ domains], such as regards the forthcoming community podcast?
* Theme viewer --[[User:Silkjaer|Silkjaer]] 19:09, 14 Jun 2006 (GMT)
** Functionaly and design
** Tagging the current 430 themes
* Using Profanity in WordPress source --[[User:ringmaster|Ringmaster]] 19:18, 14 Jun 2006 (GMT)

====Raw log====
:[[IRC_Meetups/2006/June/June14RawLog|Raw log for 06/14/06]]

===June 7 2006===
====Topics====
* Timeline for 2.0.4 bugfix release [[User:Matt|matt]]
* Why people upgrade? [[User:Matt|matt]]
* Target date and bug weekend for 2.1 [[User:Matt|matt]]
* International forums [[User:Matt|matt]]
* Localizing "official" WP.org sites, possible translation plugin
* Theme viewer status [[User:Silkjaer|Silkjaer]]

====Raw log====
:[[IRC_Meetups/2006/June/June07RawLog|Raw log for 06/07/06]]

{{meetup}}