==Description==

`wp.editor` is used to manage custom rich text (TinyMCE) or QuickTags editors.

==API Description==

In order to use this API, you should enqueue the editor with PHP, like follow:
<pre>wp_enqueue_editor();</pre>
This will enqueue scripts & styles required by the editor.

The API contains following endpoints:

===wp.editor.getDefaultSettings===

This function returns the default object that will be merged with specific configuration when initializing new editors.

<blockquote>If this property is null or undefined, please make sure you called <code>wp_enqueue_editor();</code> from PHP.</blockquote>

===wp.editor.initialize===

This method will allow you to initialize a new editor. You can use it in JavaScript this way:

 wp.editor.initialize( editorId, configObject );

The config object may contain following properties:
<table>
<tr>
<th>Property</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Default value</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>editorId</th>
<td>string</td>
<td></td>
<td>Id of the DOM element to use as base. It will be replaced with the editor</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>configObject</th>
<td>object</td>
<td><code>{ tinymce: true }</code></td>
<td>Configuration for the newly initialized editor</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>configObject.tinymce</th>
<td>object|any</td>
<td>true</td>
<td>If a truthy value is passed, it enables TinyMCE in the new editor.  This configuration object is merged with defaults; see below. For a complete list of options, see the [https://www.tinymce.com/docs/configure/" TinyMCE configuration documentation]</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>configObject.quicktags</th>
<td>object|any</td>
<td>true</td>
<td>If a truthy value is passed, it enables TinyMCE in the new editor.  This configuration object is merged with defaults; see below</td>
</tr>
</table>

Under the hoods, the config object is merged with the object returned by <code>wp.editor.getDefaultSettings</code>.

<blockquote>If this function does nothing, please make sure that <code>wp.editor.getDefaultSettings</code> is a function. See above for documentation.</blockquote>