{{Stub}}
__TOC__
==Description==
The <code>wp</code> object is used to namespace much of WordPress's custom Javascript functionality on the admin and editor screens (e.g. [[Post_Thumbnails|Featured image upload links]] and editor [[Shortcode API|shortcode]] identification).

This object can be used along with custom admin meta boxes to add functionality like [[Javascript Reference/wp.media#Example|custom ''Featured image-style'' image uploaders]].

==Structure==
The <code>window.wp</code> object is used to namespace multiple useful Javascript class objects for WordPress's admin.

;<code>[[Javascript_Reference/wp.Backbone|wp.Backbone]]</code> : Description needed

;<code>[[Javascript_Reference/wp.Uploader|wp.Uploader]]</code> : Description needed

;<code>[[Javascript_Reference/wp.ajax|wp.ajax]]</code> : Description needed

;<code>[[Javascript_Reference/wp.autosave|wp.autosave]]</code> : Description needed

;<code>[[Javascript_Reference/wp.editor|wp.editor]]</code> : Used to manage Rich Text, QuickTags or combined editors.

;<code>[[Javascript_Reference/wp.heartbeat|wp.heartbeat]]</code> : Used for checking whether a persistent connection is maintained with the server via pulses at constant intervals (every 15 seconds by default). Each pulse involves an AJAX request from the browser and an accompanying response from the server. This constant check, ensures that a server connection is maintained in order for several features to function properly. The Heartbeat API is used for revision tracking, auto saving, locking posts that are currently being edited by another user and more.

;<code>[[Javascript_Reference/wp.html|wp.html]]</code> : Description needed

;<code>[[Javascript_Reference/wp.mce|wp.mce]]</code> : Description needed

;<code>[[Javascript_Reference/wp.media|wp.media]]</code> : Used to handle and control the admin media library. It can be leveraged to create custom image selector/uploader controls and meta boxes. This is defined by {{Trac|/wp-includes/js/media-models.js}}

;<code>[[Javascript_Reference/wp.shortcode|wp.shortcode]]</code> : Description needed

;<code>[[Javascript_Reference/wp.svgPainter|wp.svgPainter]]</code> : Description needed

;<code>[[Javascript_Reference/wp.template|wp.template]]</code> : Create an Underscore.js _.template() function to be used to generate dynamic HTML blocks from pre-defined templates inside specially formed <code>&lt;script&gt;</code> tags. This is defined in {{Trac|/wp-includes/js/wp-util.js}}.

==Related==
* [[Javascript Reference]] - WordPress Javascript API reference
* [[Administration Menus]] - Information on creating and customizing administration menus & pages