[[Version_2.0.3|WordPress Version 2.0.3]] was comprised of security and bug fixes.

==Changesets==
See the list of [http://trac.wordpress.org/query?status=closed&milestone=2.0.3 tickets closed for 2.0.3].  The list below was generated with [[User:MDAWaffe/Changelog_Generator|MDAWaffe's Changelog Generator]].

*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3737 3737]: Ref checks.  Comment filter.
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3738 3738]: Only flush cache if the DB is out-of-date.
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3739 3739]: Split on '; ' not ';'.
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3741 3741]: Remove smilies sort. Props random. fixes [http://trac.wordpress.org/ticket/2550 #2550]
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3742 3742]: ent2ncr optimization. Props random. fixes [http://trac.wordpress.org/ticket/2548 #2548]
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3743 3743]: Disable cache by default.
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3744 3744]: update_option() action fix. fixes [http://trac.wordpress.org/ticket/2553 #2553]
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3745 3745]: Fix backreferences in mysql2date(). Props tenpura. fixes [http://trac.wordpress.org/ticket/2564 #2564]
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3746 3746]: Don't texturize home. Props Mark Jaquith and David House. fixes [http://trac.wordpress.org/ticket/2381 #2381]
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3747 3747]: texturize fix from that Andy guy. fixes [http://trac.wordpress.org/ticket/2634 #2634]
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3748 3748]: Remove this artificial limit, it messes up posting with seldom-used categories
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3752 3752]: Don't try to do paging for single page queries. Props westi. fixes [http://trac.wordpress.org/ticket/2578 #2578]
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3755 3755]: wp_specialchars comment author name.
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3757 3757]: wp_specialchars comment author name.
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3762 3762]: Add some prophylactic int casts and quoting.
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3771 3771]: Backport nonces and pluggable cookies.
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3779 3779]: Backport nonce fixes. [http://trac.wordpress.org/ticket/2678 #2678]
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3780 3780]: Fallback to admin referer check instead of nonce if no action is given to check_admin_referer(). For plugin compatibility.
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3781 3781]: Backport js_escape()
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3786 3786]: Excerpt fix from Mike Little.  fixes [http://trac.wordpress.org/ticket/2686 #2686]
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3792 3792]: Enclosure redirect fix from aegrumet. fixes [http://trac.wordpress.org/ticket/2551 #2551]
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3794 3794]: sanitize_user regex fix from grigs.  fixes [http://trac.wordpress.org/ticket/2729 #2729]
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3796 3796]: Ver bump
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3797 3797]: base64 cached objects and store within multi-line comment block to avoid CRLF injections into the cache.  Props Peter Westwood.
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3801 3801]: Add some category filters.
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3802 3802]: Add some user filters.
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3803 3803]: Don't show comment author name in AYS dialog to avoid JS escaping issues with untrusted data.
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3805 3805]: Update nonce action strings. Props mdawaffe.
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3806 3806]: Missed one.
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3807 3807]: Don't show comment author name in AYS dialog to avoid JS escaping issues with untrusted data. fixes [http://trac.wordpress.org/ticket/2744 #2744]
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3808 3808]: nonce and comment fixes from Juergen. fixes [http://trac.wordpress.org/ticket/2748 #2748]
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3813 3813]: wp_hash(), wp_salt(), and server secret.
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3814 3814]: Backup plugin fixes.
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3817 3817]: Typo fix.
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3820 3820]: Backup plugin fixes.
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3821 3821]: Dots fix to work around mod_mime problem. Props skeltoac.
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3823 3823]: get_permalink() performance improvement from arnee. fixes [http://trac.wordpress.org/ticket/2463 #2463]
*[http://trac.wordpress.org/changeset/3825 3825]: Verbump

[[WordPress Versions|View other Changelogs]]
[[Category:Changelogs]]