== Description ==

This function is used to add a tab to the Contextual Help menu in an admin page.

<tt>add_help_tab()</tt> is a method of the [[Class_Reference/WP_Screen|WP_Screen()]] class, and can not be called directly.

To use the method, fetch the <tt>$current_screen</tt> object or use [[Function_Reference/get_current_screen|get_current_screen()]] and then call the method from the object. Developers should keep in mind that you may need to filter <tt>$current_screen</tt> using an <tt>if</tt> or <tt>switch</tt> statement to prevent new help tabs from being added to ALL admin screens.

== Usage ==

<pre> <?php
$screen = get_current_screen();
$screen->add_help_tab( array( 
   'id' => $id,            //unique id for the tab
   'title' => $title,      //unique visible title for the tab
   'content' => $content,  //actual help text
   'callback' => $callback //optional function to callback
) );
?> </pre>

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$args|array|Contains values to be displayed by the created help tab and a callback argument}}

=== Arguments ===

{{Parameter|$title|string|Title for the tab.}}

{{Parameter|$id|string|Tab ID. Must be HTML-safe and should be unique for this menu. It is **NOT** allowed to contain any empty spaces!}}

{{Parameter|$content|string|Help tab content in plain text or HTML.|optional}}

{{Parameter|$function|callback|The function to be called to output the content for this page.|optional}}


== Example ==

=== Default Usage ===

This example shows how you would add contextual help to an admin page you've created with the <tt>add_options_page()</tt> function. Here, we assume that your admin page has a slug of 'my_admin_page' and exists under the Options tab.

<pre>
<?php 
add_action('admin_menu', 'my_admin_add_page');
function my_admin_add_page() {
    $my_admin_page = add_options_page(__('My Admin Page', 'map'), __('My Admin Page', 'map'), 'manage_options', 'map', 'my_admin_page');

    // Adds my_help_tab when my_admin_page loads
    add_action('load-'.$my_admin_page, 'my_admin_add_help_tab');
}

function my_admin_add_help_tab () {
    $screen = get_current_screen();

    // Add my_help_tab if current screen is My Admin Page
    $screen->add_help_tab( array(
        'id'	=> 'my_help_tab',
        'title'	=> __('My Help Tab'),
        'content'	=> '<p>' . __( 'Descriptive content that will show in My Help Tab-body goes here.' ) . '</p>',
    ) );
}
?>
</pre>

=== Advanced Usage (from within a class) ===

<pre>
    <?php
/**
 * Plugin Name: Help Tab Test Case
 * Plugin URI:  http://unserkaiser.com
 * Description: Add Help Tab test case
 */
class example_help
{
	public $tabs = array(
		// The assoc key represents the ID
		// It is NOT allowed to contain spaces
		 'EXAMPLE' => array(
		 	 'title'   => 'TEST ME!'
		 	,'content' => 'FOO'
		 )
	);

	static public function init()
	{
		$class = __CLASS__ ;
		new $class;
	}

	public function __construct()
	{
		add_action( "load-{$GLOBALS['pagenow']}", array( $this, 'add_tabs' ), 20 );
	}

	public function add_tabs()
	{
		foreach ( $this->tabs as $id => $data )
		{
			get_current_screen()->add_help_tab( array(
				 'id'       => $id
				,'title'    => __( $data['title'], 'some_textdomain' )
				// Use the content only if you want to add something
				// static on every help tab. Example: Another title inside the tab
				,'content'  => '<p>Some stuff that stays above every help text</p>'
				,'callback' => array( $this, 'prepare' )
			) );
		}
	}

	public function prepare( $screen, $tab )
	    {
	    	printf( 
			 '<p>%s</p>'
			,__( 
	    			 $tab['callback'][0]->tabs[ $tab['id'] ]['content']
				,'dmb_textdomain' 
			 )
		);
	}
}
// Always add help tabs during "load-{$GLOBALS['pagenow'}".
// There're some edge cases, as for example on reading options screen, your
// Help Tabs get loaded before the built in tabs. This seems to be a core error.
add_action( 'load-post.php', array( 'example_help', 'init' ) );
add_action( 'load-post-new.php', array( 'example_help', 'init' ) );
</pre>

[http://wordpress.stackexchange.com/questions/53595/help-tabs-with-add-help-tab-callback-how-does-the-argument-work/53598#53598 Above example came out of a WPSE question].

[http://wordpress.stackexchange.com/questions/45210/positioning-screen-contextual-help-tabs You can read this WPSE question about how to fix the wrong order bug without changing core code].

== Change Log ==

* Since: [[Version 3.3]]

== Source File ==

<tt>add_help_tab()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-admin/includes/class-wp-screen.php}}.

== Related ==

=== Topics ===
* [[Plugin_API/Admin_Screen_Reference|Admin Screen ID Reference]]

=== Functions ===

* [[Function Reference/add_options_page|add_options_page]]
* [[Function Reference/add_menu_page|add_menu_page]]
* [[Function Reference/add_submenu_page|add_submenu_page]]
* [[Function Reference/add_theme_page|add_theme_page]]
* [[Function Reference/get_current_screen|get_current_screen]]
* [[Function Reference/set_help_sidebar|set_help_sidebar]]

== Resources ==
* [http://wpdevel.wordpress.com/2011/12/06/help-and-screen-api-changes-in-3-3/ Help and screen API changes in 3.3] - New Help and Screen usage example. On the official WPDevel blog, by Nacin (core team member) 
* [http://ottopress.com/2011/new-in-wordpress-3-3-more-useful-help-screens/ New in WordPress 3.3: More Useful Help Screens] - Otto (core team member) explains the new Help Screens suing his SFC plugin as an example