{{Languages|
{{en|Function Reference/register_taxonomy}}
{{zh-cn|函数参考/register_taxonomy}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/register_taxonomy}}
}}
== 说明 ==

This function adds or overwrites a [[Taxonomies|taxonomy]].  It takes in a name, an object name that it affects, and an array of parameters. It does not return anything.

Care should be used in selecting a taxonomy name so that it does not conflict with other taxonomies, post types, and [http://core.trac.wordpress.org/browser/trunk/wp-includes/classes.php reserved WordPress public and private query variables].  A complete list of those is described in the [[#Reserved Terms|Reserved Terms section]].

== 用法 ==

%%% <?php register_taxonomy($taxonomy, $object_type, $args); ?> %%%

'''Use the <tt>init</tt> action to call this function.''' Calling it outside of an action can lead to troubles. See [http://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/15568 #15568] for details.

== 参数 ==

{{Parameter|$taxonomy|string|The name of the taxonomy.}}
{{Parameter|$object_type|array/string|Name of the object type for the taxonomy object.}}
{{Parameter|$args|array/string|An array of [[#Arguments|Arguments]].|optional}}

=== Arguments ===
{{Parameter|label|string|A '''plural''' descriptive name for the taxonomy marked for translation.|optional|overridden by $labels->name}}

{{Parameter|labels|array|labels - An array of labels for this taxonomy. By default tag labels are used for non-hierarchical types and category labels for hierarchical ones.|optional|if empty, name is set to label value, and singular_name is set to name value}}
:* 'name' - general name for the taxonomy, usually plural. The same as and overridden by $tax->label. Default is _x( 'Post Tags', 'taxonomy general name' ) or _x( 'Categories', 'taxonomy general name' ).  When internationalizing this string, please use a [[I18n_for_WordPress_Developers#Disambiguation_by_context|gettext context]] matching your post type. Example: <code>_x('Writers', 'taxonomy general name');</code>
:* 'singular_name' - name for one object of this taxonomy. Default is _x( 'Post Tag', 'taxonomy singular name' ) or _x( 'Category', 'taxonomy singular name' ).  When internationalizing this string, please use a [[I18n_for_WordPress_Developers#Disambiguation_by_context|gettext context]] matching your post type. Example: <code>_x('Writer', 'taxonomy singular name');</code>
:* 'search_items' - the search items text.  Default is __( 'Search Tags' ) or __( 'Search Categories' ) 
:* 'popular_items' - the popular items text.  Default is __( 'Popular Tags' ) or null
:* 'all_items' - the all items text.  Default is __( 'All Tags' ) or __( 'All Categories' )
:* 'parent_item' - the parent item text.  This string is not used on non-hierarchical taxonomies such as post tags. Default is null  or __( 'Parent Category' )
:* 'parent_item_colon' - The same as <code>parent_item</code>, but with colon <code>:</code> in the end null, __( 'Parent Category:' )
:* 'edit_item' - the edit item text. Default is __( 'Edit Tag' ) or __( 'Edit Category' )
:* 'update_item' - the update item text.  Default is __( 'Update Tag' ) or __( 'Update Category' )
:* 'add_new_item' - the add new item text.  Default is __( 'Add New Tag' ) or __( 'Add New Category' )
:* 'new_item_name' - the new item name text.  Default is __( 'New Tag Name' ) or __( 'New Category Name' )
:* 'separate_items_with_commas' - the separate item with commas text used in the taxonomy meta box.  This string isn't used on hierarchical taxonomies. Default is __( 'Separate tags with commas' ), or null
:* 'add_or_remove_items' - the add or remove items text and used in the meta box when JavaScript is disabled.  This string isn't used on hierarchical taxonomies.  Default is __( 'Add or remove tags' ) or null
:* 'choose_from_most_used' - the choose from most used text used in the taxonomy meta box. This string isn't used on hierarchical taxonomies. Default is __( 'Choose from the most used tags' ) or null
:* 'menu_name' - the menu name text. This string is the name to give menu items. Defaults to value of name 

{{Parameter|public|boolean|Should this taxonomy be exposed in the admin UI.|optional|true}}

{{Parameter|show_in_nav_menus|boolean|true makes this taxonomy available for selection in navigation menus.|optional|if not set, defaults to value of public argument}}

{{Parameter|show_ui|boolean|Whether to generate a default UI for managing this taxonomy.|optional|if not set, defaults to value of public argument}}

{{Parameter|show_tagcloud|boolean|Wether to allow the Tag Cloud widget to use this taxonomy.|optional|if not set, defaults to value of show_ui argument}}

{{Parameter|hierarchical|boolean|Is this taxonomy hierarchical (have descendants) like categories or not hierarchical like tags.|optional|false}}

{{Parameter|update_count_callback|string|A function name that will be called to update the count of an associated ''$object_type'', such as post, is updated.|optional|None}}

{{Parameter|rewrite|boolean or array|Set to false to prevent rewrite, or array to customize customize query var. Default will use $taxonomy as query var|optional|true}}
:$args array
:* 'slug' - prepend posts with this slug - defaults to taxonomy's name
:* 'with_front' - allowing permalinks to be prepended with front base - defaults to true
:* 'hierarchical' - true or false allow hierarchical urls (implemented in [[Version 3.1]])

{{Parameter|query_var|boolean or string|False to prevent queries, or string to customize query var. Default will use $taxonomy as query var|optional|$taxonomy}}

{{Parameter|capabilities|array|An array of the capabilities for this taxonomy.|optional}}
:* 'manage_terms' - 'manage_categories'
:* 'edit_terms' - 'manage_categories'
:* 'delete_terms' - 'manage_categories'
:* 'assign_terms' - 'edit_posts'

{{Parameter|_builtin|boolean|Whether this taxonomy is a native or "built-in" taxonomy. '''Note: this Codex entry is for documentation - core developers recommend you don't use this when registering your own taxonomy'''|not for general use|false}}

== 范例 ==
An an example of registering a two taxonomies, genres and writers, for the post type called "book" (uses [[Version 3.1]] arguments): 

Note: You can define custom taxonomies in a themes's <code>functions.php</code> template file:

<pre>
<?php
//hook into the init action and call create_book_taxonomies when it fires
add_action( 'init', 'create_book_taxonomies', 0 );

//create two taxonomies, genres and writers for the post type "book"
function create_book_taxonomies() 
{
  // Add new taxonomy, make it hierarchical (like categories)
  $labels = array(
    'name' => _x( 'Genres', 'taxonomy general name' ),
    'singular_name' => _x( 'Genre', 'taxonomy singular name' ),
    'search_items' =>  __( 'Search Genres' ),
    'all_items' => __( 'All Genres' ),
    'parent_item' => __( 'Parent Genre' ),
    'parent_item_colon' => __( 'Parent Genre:' ),
    'edit_item' => __( 'Edit Genre' ), 
    'update_item' => __( 'Update Genre' ),
    'add_new_item' => __( 'Add New Genre' ),
    'new_item_name' => __( 'New Genre Name' ),
    'menu_name' => __( 'Genre' ),
  ); 	

  register_taxonomy('genre',array('book'), array(
    'hierarchical' => true,
    'labels' => $labels,
    'show_ui' => true,
    'query_var' => true,
    'rewrite' => array( 'slug' => 'genre' ),
  ));

  // Add new taxonomy, NOT hierarchical (like tags)
  $labels = array(
    'name' => _x( 'Writers', 'taxonomy general name' ),
    'singular_name' => _x( 'Writer', 'taxonomy singular name' ),
    'search_items' =>  __( 'Search Writers' ),
    'popular_items' => __( 'Popular Writers' ),
    'all_items' => __( 'All Writers' ),
    'parent_item' => null,
    'parent_item_colon' => null,
    'edit_item' => __( 'Edit Writer' ), 
    'update_item' => __( 'Update Writer' ),
    'add_new_item' => __( 'Add New Writer' ),
    'new_item_name' => __( 'New Writer Name' ),
    'separate_items_with_commas' => __( 'Separate writers with commas' ),
    'add_or_remove_items' => __( 'Add or remove writers' ),
    'choose_from_most_used' => __( 'Choose from the most used writers' ),
    'menu_name' => __( 'Writers' ),
  ); 

  register_taxonomy('writer','book',array(
    'hierarchical' => false,
    'labels' => $labels,
    'show_ui' => true,
    'query_var' => true,
    'rewrite' => array( 'slug' => 'writer' ),
  ));
}
?>
</pre>

==Reserved Terms==
* attachment
* attachment_id
* author
* author_name
* calendar
* cat
* category__and
* category__in
* category__not_in
* category_name
* comments_per_page
* comments_popup
* cpage
* day
* debug
* error
* exact
* feed
* hour
* link
* minute
* monthnum
* more
* name
* nav_menu
* nopaging
* offset
* order
* orderby
* p
* page
* page_id
* paged
* pagename
* pb
* perm
* post
* post_format
* post_mime_type
* post_status
* post_type
* post_type
* posts
* posts_per_archive_page
* posts_per_page
* preview
* robots
* s
* search
* second
* sentence
* showposts
* static
* subpost
* subpost_id
* tag
* tag__and
* tag__in
* tag__not_in
* tag_id
* tag_slug__and
* tag_slug__in
* taxonomy
* tb
* term
* type
* w
* withcomments
* withoutcomments
* year

== 更改日志 ==

Since: [[Version 2.3|2.3]]

== 源文件 ==

<tt>register_taxonomy()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/taxonomy.php}}.

== 相关 ==

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]
[[Category:New_page_created]]