{{Languages|
{{en|Function_Reference/wp_insert_post}}
{{ja|関数リファレンス/wp insert post}}
{{tr|Fonksiyon Listesi/wp insert post}}
{{zh-cn|函数参考/wp_insert_post}}
}}
==说明==
本函数用于插入一篇日志（页面）到数据库中。在对变更进行处理，检查一些错误，完善未添加的变量比如日期时间等等。 此函数使用一组数组作为函数的参数，成功创建日志（页面）即返回日志（页面）的ID（否则返回一个错误<tt>0</tt>）。

==用法==
%%% <?php wp_insert_post( $post, $wp_error ); ?> %%%

==示例==
在调用 wp_insert_post() 之前，有必要创建一个对象 （通常是一个数组） 组成一篇日志的必要元素。wp_insert_post() 将会填写默认列表值，但用户需要提供标题和内容，否则数据库写入将会失败。

<pre>
// 创建 post 对象（数组）
  $my_post = array(
     'post_title' => 'My post',
     'post_content' => 'This is my post.',
     'post_status' => 'publish',
     'post_author' => 1,
     'post_category' => array(8,39)
  );

// 写入日志到数据库
  wp_insert_post( $my_post );
</pre>

上文提到的本函数默认参数列表，如下：
<pre>
$defaults = array(
'post_status' => 'draft', 
'post_type' => 'post',
'post_author' => $user_ID,
'ping_status' => get_option('default_ping_status'), 
'post_parent' => 0,
'menu_order' => 0,
'to_ping' =>  '',
'pinged' => '',
'post_password' => '',
'guid' => '',
'post_content_filtered' => '',
'post_excerpt' => '',
'import_id' => 0);
</pre>

=== 分类目录 ===
插入分类目录到数据库，需要传递一组（数字整形）数组作为分类目录的ID。即使数组只有一个分类目录值也会分配到该日志。

== 参数 ==
{{Parameter|$post|object|An object representing the elements that make up a post. There is a one-to-one relationship between these elements and the names of columns in the wp_posts table in the database.}}

'''IMPORTANT''': Setting a value for $post['ID'] WILL NOT create a post with that ID number. Setting this value will cause the function to update the post with that ID number with the other values specified in $post. In short, to insert a new post, $post['ID'] must be blank or not set at all. 

The contents of the post array can depend on how much (or little) you want to trust the defaults. Here is a list with a short description of all the keys you can set for a post:
<pre>
$post = array(
  'ID' => [ <post id> ] //Are you updating an existing post?
  'menu_order' => [ <order> ] //If new post is a page, sets the order should it appear in the tabs.
  'comment_status' => [ 'closed' | 'open' ] // 'closed' means no comments.
  'ping_status' => [ 'closed' | 'open' ] // 'closed' means pingbacks or trackbacks turned off
  'pinged' => [ ? ] //?
  'post_author' => [ <user ID> ] //The user ID number of the author.
  'post_category' => [ array(<category id>, <...>) ] //Add some categories.
  'post_content' => [ <the text of the post> ] //The full text of the post.
  'post_date' => [ Y-m-d H:i:s ] //The time post was made.
  'post_date_gmt' => [ Y-m-d H:i:s ] //The time post was made, in GMT.
  'post_excerpt' => [ <an excerpt> ] //For all your post excerpt needs.
  'post_name' => [ <the name> ] // The name (slug) for your post
  'post_parent' => [ <post ID> ] //Sets the parent of the new post.
  'post_password' => [ ? ] //password for post?
  'post_status' => [ 'draft' | 'publish' | 'pending'| 'future' ] //Set the status of the new post. 
  'post_title' => [ <the title> ] //The title of your post.
  'post_type' => [ 'post' | 'page' ] //Sometimes you want to post a page.
  'tags_input' => [ '<tag>, <tag>, <...>' ] //For tags.
  'to_ping' => [ ? ] //?
);  
</pre>

'''NOTE''' (added 10/1/2009): The '''page_template''' key was removed from the $post table and is now located in the wp_postmeta table. To set the page template of a page, use [[Function Reference/update_post_meta|update_post_meta]] instead.

'''NOTE 2''': The '''post_status''' is documented at [[Post Status Transitions]].

'''NOTE 3''': If providing a post_status of 'future' you must specify the post_date in order for WordPress to know when to publish your post.

{{Parameter|$wp_error|bool|Allow return of WP_Error object on failure|optional|false}}

==Return==
The ID of the post if the post is successfully added to the database. On failure, it returns <tt>0</tt> if $wp_error is set to false, or a WP_Error object if $wp_error is set to true.

==Related==
[[Function Reference/wp update post|wp_update_post()]], 
[[Function Reference/wp delete post|wp_delete_post()]], 
[[Function Reference/wp publish post|wp_publish_post()]], 
[[Function Reference/wp delete attachment|wp_delete_attachment()]],
[[Function Reference/wp get attachment url|wp_get_attachment_url()]],
[[Function Reference/wp insert attachment|wp_insert_attachment()]],
[[Plugin API/Filter Reference/wp insert post data|wp_insert_post_data()]]
{{Copyedit}}

[[Category:Functions]]
[[Category:New page created]]