==Official Statements==

The following are "official" statement examples to be used for promoting WordPress.

=== Example 1===

WordPress is a state-of-the-art semantic personal publishing platform. Simply, WordPress is what you use when you want to work with your blogging software, not fight it. With over 500,000 downloads, WordPress is the fastest growing blogging software packed with powerful features, high user customizability, and extensive add-ons to expand your site's capabilities. You can rest assured that with WordPress you will be on the cutting edge of the technology available. WordPress is both free and priceless at the same time.

=== Example 2 ===

If you want to work with your blogging software instead of fighting it, WordPress is perfect for you. WordPress is packed with powerful features and is completely customizable, with extensive libraries of add-ons available to expand your site's capabilities further. WordPress will place you at cutting edge of blogging technology, along with hundreds of thousands of other satisfied users. The best part? WordPress is available 100% free of charge.

=== Example 3 ===

WordPress is a state-of-the-art, semantic personal publishing platform.  If you've ever had the experience of wishing your blogging software could do something it couldn't, chances are that WordPress does it.  With over 500,000 downloads, WordPress is the world's fastest growing blogging software.  It is packed with powerful features, including plug-ins which allow any user to do just anything they might want on their blog.  If you have a wish list of features that you'd like from your current provider, a WordPress user has probably thought of most of them and created plug-ins that provide the functionality you're looking for.  You can rest assured that with WordPress you will be on the cutting edge of blogging technology. WordPress is both free and priceless at the same time.

=== Word Issues ===

;semantic :this may be a good technical term, but I think it'll be gobbledygook to most non technical folk and we should figure out what we mean by 'semantic' and say that instead--or even better, leave the word out completely. 


==Statistics ==

The following are statistics to be used for promotion of WordPress.

* Downloads: http://wordpress.org/download/counter/
* WordPress Support Forum:  
** Participants on WordPress Forum - More than 25,000
** Post Totals on WordPress Forum - 234,286 as of September 19, 2005.
* WordPress Codex:
** Articles on WordPress Codex - {{NUMBEROFARTICLES}}
** Registered users on WordPress Codex - 2662, [[Special:Statistics|Statistics]]
* WordPress International:
** Number of International Support "Forums" - ~12
** Number of Languages Supported - 38 officially listed, [[WordPress in Your Language]]
* WordPress Hosts - 5 [http://wordpress.org/hosting/ WordPress Hosting Information]
* WordPress Volunteers (number) - 
** Number of "Volunteers" on the Tester Mailing List - 451
** Number of "Volunteers" on the Hackers Mailing List - 436
** Number of "Volunteers" on the Codex Documentation Mailing List - 165
** Number of "Volunteers on the Polygots Mailing List - 145
** Number of "Volunteers" on the Support Forum Mailing List - 31 (new)
** Estimated number of "Volunteers" on the #wordpress chat - ~40

=== WordPress Ranking ===

* Google Page Ranking - 9
* Yahoo Page Ranking

=== Awards ===

* [http://wordpress.org/development/2005/01/web-app-of-year/ 2005 Web Application of the Year]

=== WordPressMU Hosts ===

* [http://www.webhosting.info/news/1/netfirms-launches-hosted-publishing-solution_0922054457.htm NetFirms]
* [http://www.edublogs.org edublogs.org]
* [http://www.prblogs.com prblogs.com]

== Articles About WordPress ==

'''Before using these, we should we get permission from the authors to use their quotes. If permission is received, please state AUTHORIZED after the quote.'''

* WordPress in MacAddict: (From Matt's Blog) A few people have written in to point out WordPress is in MacAddict this month as well. Last time I went to Border’s to pick up Linux Journal they didn’t have it so I’ll try again today and pick up both. When it’s all done I’ll try to post pictures. Wed, Jul 13, 2005 17:58 - '''Can we find this information?'''
* [http://www.linuxjournal.com/article/8332 Linux Journal "Editors' Choice Awards 2005"] WordPress blogging software and WordPress Web Hosting-get a full-featured blog without setting up your own server: wordpress.org/hosting
* [http://www.forbes.com/bow/b2c/review.jhtml?id=7262 Forbes Magazine - Forbes Best of the Web - WordPress Review]: "In February, open source blogging application WordPress came out with its release 1.5, and we've found that this release puts WordPress squarely ahead of its competition (namely MovableType, which has begun to shift its focus away from consumers and onto enterprises). Although wrangling together a domain name and Web hosting space and then uploading the WordPress software can be intimidating to newcomers, once it's set up this hosted option is one of your easiest for ongoing use....WordPress is gaining in popularity quickly, with more than 200,000 downloads in its first three months. If you like WordPress, but think it's too complicated, try Blogsome, a hosted version of WordPress." Honored with '''Best Comunity of Users'''

=== News and Information about v1.6 ===

* [http://boren.nu/archives/category/wordpress/ Ryan Boren's Weekly Announcements on 1.6 Status and Activities]

=== Reviews ===

;[http://www.ojr.org/ojr/stories/050714gardner/ Time to check: Are you using the right blogging tool?]:"WordPress is a solid, powerful blogging system ideal for publishers who are on a budget but who don't want to give up any functionality. Professional blogger Darren Rowse maintains nearly 30 blogs using WordPress, from his popular ProBlogger to an Athens Olympics Blog. In two weeks the Athens blog received close to 2 million readers, said Rowse – a real testament to WordPress' ability to handle heavy traffic loads." By Susannah Gardner, 2005-07-14

;[http://www.richardsilverstein.com/tikun_olam/2005/06/tikun-olam-moves-from-typepad-to-wordpress/ Tikun Olam Moves from Typepad to WordPress] :Commentary on reviewing the positives and negatives of moving from Typepad to WordPress.

;4 Stars :Compared with other server-based weblog platforms like Movable Type (MT) and Greymatter, WordPress is relatively easier to install. It also doesn't take up as much server space. With a great interface and powerful features, it's definitely a weblog software worth considering...Regardless of some inadequacies, WordPress is a highly recommended software for anyone who wants a powerful server-based weblog without the fuss of going through a complicated installation process. [http://weblogs.about.com/cs/blogsoftware/gr/wordpress.htm About.com's Weblog Reviews  by Sheila Ann Manuel Coggins]

=== Quotes ===

; [http://www.tuaw.com/2005/07/19/wordpress-most-mac-like-blogging-tool/ The Unofficial Apple Weblog - WordPress: Most Mac-like Blogging Tool?] :"Well, there's no official claim like this coming from Infinite Loop, but it just so happens that Apple's student blog is not only run off of WordPress, which has been a known fact for a while, but Apple has now updated the site so that is proclaims "Powered by WordPress" in the sidebar. Of course, this isn't an endorsement, as you'll notice from the text immediately above the "Powered by WordPress" bit. I wonder if WordPress's support of podcasting had anything to do with the move..." Posted Jul 19, 2005, 6:45 PM ET by C.K. Sample, III

;[http://www.tiredofstandingstill.net/blog/2005/07/10/wordpress-ive Ried of Standing Still - Wordpress-ive] :"I can’t get over how impressive Wordpress and the Wordpress team is. As a long-time user of free/open source software, the idea that a team of people would voluntarily give their time and great effort to creating and maintaining an excellent piece of software is nothing new to me. Yet I am consistantly blown away by each new realease. The product itself is as easy to use and elegantly designed that it keeps from view just how powerful it really is. And their website’s Installing and Upgranding Wordpress wikis are the sort of Help pages most every open source app I’ve ever used was lacking. They’re simply a pleasure to use." By J.Michael, July, 10, 2005

; [http://edcommunity.apple.com/adc/tools/?p=19 Apple Digital Campus Exchange - How-To Podcast with WordPress] :"These blogs are built using WordPress — IMHO WordPress is the best single user blogging system available (did I mention its free? And that I use it for my other blog as well?). The concept of podcasting has been getting a lot of press — and with Steve’s iTunes 4.9 demo at WWDC it appears as though it could be hitting the mainstream. What most people fail to realize about podcasting is how easy they are to serve up with the right tools...." 

; [http://blogsavvy.net/why-on-earth-would-you-want-a-website BlogSavvy - Why on Earth Would You Want a Website by James Farmer] :"I was scribbling out some site design stuff today, going to set it up and realised ‘Wow, a year ago this would have been index.htm’. This time round that hadn’t even popped into my mind… of course I was going to use WordPress to put it together, why would I waste my time and expend my energy on doing it any other way?...It’s Kodak for the internet… so why on earth would you want a website when you can have a blogsite?"

; [http://jeremy.zawodny.com/blog/archives/004796.html Jeremy Zawodny] :"MovableType has treated me well for several years now, but the more I play with WordPress on a couple sites I run, the more I've realized that it just feels right."

; [http://worcester.typepad.com/pc4media/2005/06/when_worlds_col.html When Worlds Collide (Almost)] :"The ease of putting up pages on wordpress was amazing. I wouldn't hesitate to use wordpress to manage content for almost any small business's website. It makes the process extremely simple...by starting with WordPress and having the ability to choose from 1000s of already built layouts, the process of building a sharp looking website that is easy to manage couldn't be much easier. Dreamhost, like a lot of other hosting companies, makes it even easier by enabling the wordpress install process through a web interface."

;[http://www.ojr.org/ojr/stories/050714gardner/ Online Journalism Review (USC's Annenberg School of Journalism) Review of WordPress] :"WordPress is a solid, powerful blogging system ideal for publishers who are on a budget but who don't want to give up any functionality. Professional blogger Darren Rowse maintains nearly 30 blogs using WordPress, from his popular ProBlogger to an Athens Olympics Blog. In two weeks the Athens blog received close to 2 million readers, said Rowse – a real testament to WordPress' ability to handle heavy traffic loads...This software has inspired numerous developers to write plugins and extra features for use with WordPress, which makes plugin installation a quick and painless affair. You will find that the selection of additional themes (or skins), for instance, numbers in the hundreds, and that WordPress fans and friends have developed tools for adding photo galleries, a music player, an event calendar, and even geo mapping. WordPress promises a 5-minute installation, but for that to be true you do have some familiarity with uploading files to a Web server and using an FTP client. Cost: Free."

; [http://www.bobricci.com/ Bob Ricici, parady artist]:"I am the artist manager for Bob Ricci, famous parody artist. Our site www.BobRicci.com (http://community.bobricci.com) caters to more than 350,000 hits a day from fans worldwide. I wanted to let you know that in our years of being online and having to support such a large amount of global traffic Wordpress.org is the only software we have found that is able to withstand the amount of traffic and offer us a community/news service in the online marketplace."

=== WordPress Mentions ===

;[http://www.sifry.com/alerts/archives/000332.html State of the Blogosphere, August 2005, Part 1: Blog Growth] :MSN Spaces, Blogger, LiveJournal, AOL Journals, as well as a number of international hosted services are growing quickly, and use of software like WordPress and Movable Type to provide blogs continue to grow significantly. There's a growing number of WordPress-based hosted services that are arising, including Laughing Squid, Dreamhost, and Blue Host, marking an interesting trend - that of ISPs and hosting providers using the GPL'ed software as a differentiating feature of their services. 

:Based on the above article, the following articles were generated, mentioning WordPress:
:* [http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/4737671.stm  BBC News - One blog created 'every second']
:* [http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2005/08/02/tech/main713494.shtml CBS News - Report: A Blog Born Every Second]
:* [http://www.guardian.co.uk/uk_news/story/0,3604,1541357,00.html The Guardian UK - Every second a blog - but not for the long slog]
:* [http://www.webpronews.com/news/ebusinessnews/wpn-45-20050804BlogsDoThisManyPeopleReallyHaveSomethingToSay.html WebPro News - Blogs: Do This Many People Really Have Something To Say?]

;[http://www.mysql.com/news-and-events/news/article_925.html An Open Letter to the Community from MySQL Founders David Axmark & Michael "Monty" Widenius] :Major free software projects and hugely-popular Web sites such as the Sahana (disaster recovery system for the tsunami), Ensembl.org and Human Genome Project (used for cancer research), Wikipedia, Bugzilla, Craigslist, Feedster, Flickr, Freshmeat, LiveJournal, Neopets, Slashdot, SugarCRM, Technorati, Wordpress, CERN’s ATLAS Experiment -- all taking advantage of MySQL's speed, ease of use, flexibility, scalability and ecosystem.

== Things To Do ==

* [[Technical Articles]]
* Go through Matt's website and look for announcements/recognition/etc.
** [http://www.macosxhints.com/article.php?story=20050215150246445 macosxhints - WordPress - Easy to install (and use) blog software]
** [http://www.ojr.org/ojr/stories/050714gardner/ WordPress in the Online Journalism Review]
** [http://internet.newsforge.com/internet/05/03/09/1622248.shtml Newsforge review of WordPress]
** [http://www.businessblogconsulting.com/2004/09/wordpress_blog_.html Rick E. Bruner's Business Blog Consulting: WordPress Blog Publishing Platform Review]


[[Category:About WordPress]]
[[Category:WordPress Development]]



<div style="border:blue solid 1px; padding: 10px">
'''MENU:''' [[Fundraising and Promotions]], [[Fundraising and Promotions/Statements|PR Statements]], [[Fundraising_and_Promotions/Media List|Media List]], [[Fundraising_and_Promotions/Calendar|Calendar]]
</div>