'''Wordsmith''' is the new title that will be given to those who volunteer to install WordPress for friends or family as part of the '''Install WordPress for a Friend''' promotional campaign.

== Project Outline ==

=== Purpose ===

'''Install WordPress for a Friend''' is designed to:

# Promote WordPress.
# Encourage users.
# Create a "community" of volunteers who help WordPress users.
# Recognize "wordsmiths" as volunteers who help WordPress users install and develop WordPress blogs and sites.

=== Description ===

Using a link in their Wordpress sites, such as <tt><nowiki><a href="http://example.com" rel="wordsmith">Joe Example</a></nowiki></tt>, a WordPress "spider" would go out and spider the home page URLs from the support forums database and look for the <tt>rel="wordsmith"</tt> links. This information would then be added to the Profile Page of a user on the [http://www.wordpress.org/support WordPress Support Forum]. It is a "gameable" technique and a "scorecard" on the user's Forum Profile Pages will be kept to monitor the number of "points" for such links as an official '''wordsmith'''.

=== Tasks ===

By the time the developers have finished the development of the spider and made changes to the WordPress Forum, the following tasks must be completed:

* Update and check related WordPress Codex Documentation.
** [[Getting_Started_with_WordPress|All documentation related to Installs and Getting Started With WordPress]]
** [[Troubleshooting]]
** [[FAQ]]
** [[Upgrading WordPress]]
* Prepare [[Support_Forum_Volunteers]] for information on installs.
* Prepare [[Support_Forum_Volunteers]] for information on how to answer questions about this project on the forums.
* Prepare the schedule below for promotional activities.

== Schedule ==

'''November Release'''

* Project Coding
* Project Specifications and Instructions
* Promotional Campaign Begins


[[Category:About WordPress]]
[[Category:WordPress Development]]