=== 2005-07-27 === 
(time changed to 2:30 PST)

====Past Topics Revisited====
* codex -> wp.org style integration: status? -- DavidHouse
* IRC Status (please read [[User:Morydd/IRC_Status_Ideas]] ) and comment. -- [[User:Morydd|Morydd]] 02:09, 24 Jul 2005 (UTC)
* [[Fundraising_and_Promotions|Fundraising and Events]] - WE NEED HELP - sign up and ideas

====New Proposed Topics====

* Development priorities and opportunities for volunteers
* IRC - How to deal with flooding in #wordpress in a more timely manner (re: pop, last night) -- [[User:Tunicwriter|Tunicwriter]] 21:21, 27 Jul 2005 (UTC)

====Raw Log====
:[[IRC Meetups/2005/July/July27RawLog|Raw log for 07/27/05]]

===2005-07-20===
====Past Topics Revisited====

* [[Fundraising_and_Promotions|Fundraising and Events]] - WE NEED HELP - sign up and ideas
* [[User:Lorelle/Backup_Week|Backup Week: July 23-30]] See: [[WordPress Backups]]. Need help promoting the event. Please sign up to help.
* Maintainer needed for the Theme Viewer

====Suggested Topics====
=====Forum=====
* Status of latest Forum software updates
* Dashboard feed situation?  - Why isn't it working?  Or is it?

=====IRC=====
*Granting voice to regular users who are helpful, a way to show who is knowlegable and trustworthy in #wordpress
*Any extra functionality wanted in wpbot? --[[User:Westi|Westi]] 21:37, 29 Jun 2005 (UTC)
**Logging of meetup directly to Codex?
::Meeting raw notes are posted within less than 30 minutes to the Codex usually - please explain.
::Just to automate the process.  No big whoop.

===== Codex =====
* Status of new site and server.
* MediaWiki + bbPress = [[User:RobLa/bbPress Auth for MediaWiki|possible]]?

===== Atom API =====
* status?

====Raw Log====
:[[IRC Meetups/2005/July/July20RawLog|Raw log for July 20th]]

===2005-07-13===
This meeting never happened due to the non-appearance of Matt (there were codex problems at the time).

===2005-07-06===
====Past Topics Revisited====
* [http://photomatt.net/2005/06/16/tons-of-plugins/ From Photomatt's site]: The WP-Plugins.org developer plugin repository now has over 300 registered plugins. Time to get that directory going! Status?
* Hooking Forum and Codex together (skippy?) Status?
** a quick-link syntax would be divine: <nowiki>[[Template Tag]]</nowiki> or &lt;codex Template Tag /&gt;
** Common user database may be possible when bbPress shifts to more flexible user storage method.
* New Page for [[Fundraising_and_Promotions|Fundraising and Events]] - sign up and ideas
* [[User:Lorelle/Backup_Week|Backup Week: July 23-30]] News release out this week! See: [[WordPress Backups]]. Need help promoting the event. Please sign up to help.
* Install WordPress for a Friend - Status?
* Need to contact hosts on http://wordpress.org/hosting/ to see if they support [http://wordpress.org/development/2005/05/security-update/ mod_security].  Update http://wordpress.org/hosting/ accordingly.
* WordPress Wednesday

====Suggested Topics====
* Maintainer needed for the Theme Viewer
* Could we have an official position statement on patches/upgrades ? This one of a small number of threads http://wordpress.org/support/topic/38000 and this issue can only get louder and more vociverous. An official statement would go a long way to helping.
* Expanding multi-media documentation
* MU development update
* Future plans for development and business

=====Release Engineering=====
* Providing Patches? - See for lively discussion [http://wordpress.org/support/topic/38000 http://wordpress.org/support/topic/38000]
* Providing MD5's for downloads to allow for authenticity checks
** Signing downloads

=====IRC=====
*Granting voice to regular users who are helpful, a way to show who is knowlegable and trustworthy in #wordpress
*Any extra functionality wanted in wpbot? --[[User:Westi|Westi]] 21:37, 29 Jun 2005 (UTC)

=====Forum=====
* [[Support Forum Volunteers]]
* New [[Mailing_Lists#Support_Forum_Volunteers|Forum Support Volunteers Mailing List]] status and activity report?
* Will begin preparing volunteers for [[User:Lorelle/Backup_Week|Backup Week]]

=====Developers=====
* Status of 1.5.2/1.6
** Details of new User Meta additions in 1.6
*** Will plugin hooks be available for plugin authors to add meta data to users? --[[User:Ryan Duff|Ryan Duff]] 18:58, 5 Jul 2005 (UTC)

====Raw Log====
[[IRC_Meetups/2005/July/July06RawLog|July 06, 2005 Raw Log]]


[[IRC Meetups|Back to IRC Meetups]]

[[Category:About WordPress]]
[[Category:Meetings]]
[[Category:WordPress Development]]