==June 2005 Meetups==

===2005-06-29===

====Past Topics Revisited====

* [http://photomatt.net/2005/06/16/tons-of-plugins/ From Photomatt's site]: The WP-Plugins.org developer plugin repository now has over 300 registered plugins. Time to get that directory going! Status?
* Hooking Forum and Codex together (skippy?) Status?
** a quick-link syntax would be divine: <nowiki>[[Template Tag]]</nowiki> or &lt;codex Template Tag /&gt;
** common user database may be possible when bbPress shifts to more flexible user storage method.
* Status of new WP.org logo?

====Suggested Topics====

====="Wordpress Openness"=====

* Discuss all relevant issues brought up in the [http://comox.textdrive.com/pipermail/wp-hackers/2005-June/001403.html "Wordpress Openness"] thread from the wp-hackers mailing list 

=====Fundraising and Events=====

* New Page for [[Fundraising_and_Promotions|Fundraising and Events]] - sign up and ideas
* [[User:Lorelle/Backup_Week|Backup Week: July 23-30]] News out end of this week!
* Install WordPress for a Friend - Status?

=====Forum=====

* New page for forum support discussion [[Support Forum Volunteers]]
* Can we have a mailing list for this project please ?

=====Developers=====

* Status of 1.5.2/1.6

=====Codex=====
* Codex Cleanup Dates: June 18-26, 2005 - status
* Special thanks to everyone who helped.

===== New Topics=====

* Define purpose of Weekly Meetup: Discussion of the business of WordPress or exclusively for WordPress development issues. 
** Relevant links from the ''wp-hackers'' list concerning the origin and purpose of the IRC Meetups: [http://comox.textdrive.com/pipermail/wp-hackers/2005-April/000767.html Message One] and [http://comox.textdrive.com/pipermail/wp-hackers/2005-April/000772.html Message Two]
* A channel set exclusively for discussion of WordPress Development like #wordpress-dev to provide better communication and faster decision making
* [[Development Planning]] - Should feature requestors be guided to this document?
* Need to contact hosts on http://wordpress.org/hosting/ to see if the support [http://wordpress.org/development/2005/05/security-update/ mod_security]

=====IRC=====

*Granting voice to regular users who are helpful, a way to show who is knowlegable and trustworthy in #wordpress
*Any extra functionality wanted in wpbot? --[[User:Westi|Westi]] 21:37, 29 Jun 2005 (UTC)

===== "Minutes" =====
[[IRC_Meetups/2005/June/June29Transcript|Transcription of the meetup]]

[[IRC_Meetups/2005/June/June29RawLog|Raw log of the meetup]]

----
===2005-06-22===

====Past Topics Revisited====

* Wiki Working Group - status?
* Future contests coming up? Is there a guideline or advice area for people who want to start new contests?
* Install WordPress for a Friend - Status?

====Suggested Topics====

=====Forum=====

* Forum: Increased search results? Paged maybe? Status?
* '''1.6 support''' EVERY support request for ANY blog running code later than 1.5.1.2 ''WILL'' be closed ON SIGHT. I couldn't care if it's about CSS - it's a dead post. A link to the page Skippy made will be used.

=====Developers=====

* Status of 1.5.2/1.6
* Developers/Hackers report on activities
* <strike>Development Blog RSS broke</strike> - currently works [http://www.feedvalidator.org/check.cgi?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwordpress.org%2Fdevelopment%2Ffeed%2F ok] --[[User:Westi|Westi]] 13:33, 22 Jun 2005 (UTC)

=====Codex=====

* Codex Cleanup Dates: June 18-26, 2005 - status

=====Calendar of Events=====

* Backup Week: July 23-30 News out next week!

=====Other New Topics=====

* [http://photomatt.net/2005/06/16/tons-of-plugins/ From Photomatt's site]: The WP-Plugins.org developer plugin repository now has over 300 registered plugins. Time to get that directory going! Status?
* Possible hosting by [http://wordpress.org wordpress.org] of WordPress blogs
* A WordPress branded blogging tool?

===== "Minutes" =====
[[IRC_Meetups/2005/June/June22RawLog|Raw log of the meetup]]

----

=== 2005-06-15 ===


====Past Topics Revisited====
* Wiki Working Group - status?
* WordPress Extend Theme Viewer - status?
* Forum Support: Increasing Adsense advice being sought. Article for Codex needed - sign up?
* Forum Support: Alternative forum(s) for non-WP support ?
* Forum: Increased search results ? Paged maybe ?
* Dates and Times are messed up on the forum. Status?
* Plugin Contest - Ends June 15 - status?

==== Suggested Topics ====

=====Meetup Meeting=====
* Can we have a subchair so meeting can continue with or without Matt to help make team decisions?

=====Development=====
* Status of 1.5.2/1.6
* Development Blog RSS broke

=====Calendar of Events=====
* Logo release date?
* Backup Week date picked: (1)July 9-16 - (2)July 16-23 - (3)July 23-30 
* NPR does it, why can't we have a spring/fall fundraising campaign, NPR-style?
* Future contests coming up? Is there a guideline or advice area for people who want to start new contests?

=====Help Wanted=====
* Codex Cleanup Volunteers
* Codex Development Articles Wanted
* Can we add '''Volunteers Wanted''' postings in Developers Blog

=====Forum=====
* Can we add a search for just the Codex, below the normal search in the forum? Or add a category in the search results for the Codex? Also, see [http://guff.szub.net/wordpress/google.html Kaf's cool search choices]
* Sticky Posted Codex Articles

=====Codex=====
* Status: New Front Page and FAQ
* Codex Cleanup Dates: June 18-26, 2005
* Development Articles sought for Codex
* FAQ Table of Contents still needs fixing to have a class for left float/position not right float. [[User:MichaelH]]
* [[Codex:Tasks]] Lots of new tasks added - FYI check them out

===== "Minutes" =====
[[IRC_Meetups/2005/June/June15RawLog|Raw log of the meetup]]


=== 2005-06-08 ===

====Past Topics Revisited====
* Wiki Working Group
* WordPress Extend Theme Viewer - status?

==== Suggested Topics ====

=====Forum=====
* Forum Support: Increasing Adsense advice being sought. Not just on code placement but actual tactics. Why should we support Google ?
** No we shouldn't, direct them to [https://www.google.com/support/adsense/bin/static.py?page=tips.html&gsessionid=AgQYyve6EEE this page]
* <nowiki>*bump*</nowiki> Question:: Should all such <nowiki>*bump*</nowiki> posts - where NO additional information is added be removed ? (This is happening a lot recently and it's annoying so a calmer response is appreciated)
** IMO Bumps should be deleted
* Increased search results ? Paged maybe ?
* Tags: Status and Response (Mods can now remove tags --[[User:Podz|Podz]] 17:33, 4 Jun 2005 (UTC))
* Stickies. Are obviously not being read. We have had a huge increase in people posting reams of code, and increase in bumping, and increase in multiple postings. Propose: A single but concise sticky in each forum but NOT the 'How To...' forum. In that one will be more detail. make it concise. date the title for the stickies so others can see when updated. Hit the forum with all of them at once - Sunday nights are usually quiet and with a bit of help at the time, we can help any posts which are knocked back. I'll use what we have already to create the new ones and will try to get inout and a draft by the time most of you are reading this :) --[[User:Podz|Podz]] 16:16, 7 Jun 2005 (UTC)
** Maybe something like http://textsnippets.com/ ?
* <strike>Dates and Times are messed up on the forum. Freshness seems to work, but on the thread "Topic Started" seems to always say 18 hours or 12 hours ago when the topic started 2 minutes ago.</strike>  Fixed??  --[[User:MDAWaffe|MDAWaffe]] - [[User_Talk:MDAWaffe|Talk]] 21:00, 8 Jun 2005 (UTC)

=====Codex=====
* Status: New Front Page and FAQ
* Codex Cleanup Dates: June 18-26, 2005
* Codex server stability?
* '''Warning for Codex Cleanup and General Usage:''' Until the database errors caused by the 1.4.5 MediaWiki upgrade are resolved, clicking on the [[:Category:Stubs|Stub Pages]] or [[:Category:Copyedits|Copy Editing]] in the [[Codex:Contributing#Creating_and_Managing_Content|Creating and Managing Content section]]  won't work.  [[User:MichaelH|MichaelH]] [[User_talk:MichaelH|(talk)]] 16:34, 8 Jun 2005 (UTC)  '''This was fixed June 8,2005''' [[User:MichaelH|MichaelH]] [[User_talk:MichaelH|(talk)]] 22:43, 9 Jun 2005 (UTC)

=====Development=====
* Status of 1.5.2/1.6

=====Calendar of Events=====
* Logo release date?
* Backup Week date picked: (1)July 9-16 - (2)July 16-23 - (3)July 23-30 
* NPR does it, why can't we have a spring/fall fundraising campaign, NPR-style?
* Future contests coming up? Is there a guideline or advice area for people who want to start new contests?

=====Help Wanted=====
* Codex Cleanup Volunteers
* Codex Development Articles Wanted
* Can we add '''Volunteers Wanted''' postings in Developers Blog

====="Minutes"=====
[[IRC Meetups/2005/June/June08RawLog|Raw log of the meetup]]

===2005-06-01===

The meetup will be at '''#wordpress-meetup'''


====Past Topics Revisited====
* WordPress.org: Extend Themes page
* Forums: Your WordPress - in or out?
* Webtoolscollection's Plugin Contest - status?
* WordPress Resource Center and Theme Viewer - status?
* Wiki Working Group - new mailing list - status and info? What is this?
* WordPress Meetup Groups - Is there a "list" for the groups yet? [[User:Lorelle|Lorelle]] 14:20, 31 May 2005 (UTC)

====Suggested Topics ====
=====Codex=====
* New Look in process for Codex front page [[User:Lorelle|Lorelle]] 14:15, 31 May 2005 (UTC)
* Codex Cleanup Date Announced [[User:Lorelle|Lorelle]] 20:00, 26 May 2005 (UTC)
* On the [[Mailing_Lists]], Hackers are separate from Developers, yet it says that the hackers list is the developers mailing list now.  Can we consolidate and clear this up?  Or are hackers and developers separate?
* Still looking for holes in documentation that need to be filled. [[User:Lorelle|Lorelle]] 14:15, 31 May 2005 (UTC)
* FAQ reorganization in process. Will be a big Codex Cleanup task. [[User:Lorelle|Lorelle]] 14:15, 31 May 2005 (UTC)
* [[Codex:Tasks]] is being updated. Check in and sign up.
* Consider holding separate Codex-related IRC meeting to prevent monopolization of talk time with support/Codex/documentation issues.

=====Forum=====
* Tags: request made to clean up tags - status
* Tags: 1.5.1 becomes 1.51 - confusing?
**Ability to rename raw names after creation. [[User:MDAWaffe|MDAWaffe]] - [[User_Talk:MDAWaffe|Talk]] 20:57, 1 Jun 2005 (UTC)
* Tags: When clicked on tag 1.51, the main thread Podz started on installing 1.5 > 1.5.1 is NOT on the list but the most critical post to be listed. Can we control this?
**Ability to associate to each tag a canonical topic?  Call it the tag's 'archon'.  ~sticky. [[User:MDAWaffe|MDAWaffe]] - [[User_Talk:MDAWaffe|Talk]] 20:44, 1 Jun 2005 (UTC)
* <strike>On Post: "Topic Stared 3 minutes ago" - The last post was three 3 minutes ago, the topic may have started 3 months ago.  Anyway to clean that up or change the words?</strike>
**Will fix this weekend. [[User:MDAWaffe|MDAWaffe]] - [[User_Talk:MDAWaffe|Talk]] 20:44, 1 Jun 2005 (UTC)
* Search Forum: Thank you for removing ugly google search - can we increase forum search results to 10 per category rather than 5?

=====Development Issues=====
* Developers Blog - wp-hackers mailing list - wordpress.org/development? Can we clarify what that is and where that is?
* 1.5.2 or 1.6 ([[Version_1.6|1.6 goals and suggestions]]) - status
* Addition of easy backups in next WordPress version - and date

* Discussion about beefing up file/image upload/management functionality for 1.6/1.5.2 --[[User:MCincubus|MCincubus]] 22:14, 25 May 2005 (UTC)
<strike>* Project report: OpenID --[[User:Firas|Firas]] 06:05, 28 May 2005 (UTC)</strike> Awaiting release of the in-dev PHP Class -firas
* bbPress - mdawaffe - status?
<strike>* TortoiseSVN tutorial - Firas - status?</strike> Publishing Monday -firas

=====Calendar of Events=====
* Logo release date?
* Backup Week date picked
* NPR does it, why can't we have a spring/fall fundraising campaign, NPR-style?
* Future contests coming up? Is there a guideline or advice area for people who want to start new contests?

=====Help Wanted=====
* Can we add '''Volunteers Wanted''' postings in Developers Blog
* Codex Cleanup Date Announced [[User:Lorelle|Lorelle]] 20:00, 26 May 2005 (UTC)

===== "Minutes" =====
[[IRC_Meetups/2005/June/June01RawLog|Raw log of the meetup]]


[[IRC Meetups|Back to IRC Meetups]]

[[Category:About WordPress]]
[[Category:Meetings]]
[[Category:WordPress Development]]