== 2005-05-25 ==

The meetup will be at '''#wordpress-meetup'''

=== Agenda ===

* Update on open task items
** 1.5.1.1 was released. Woot.
** WordPress Resource Center and Theme Viewer
** Codex Cleanup Week
** Bringing Codex into WP.org look&feel
* WP Groups [[User:Lorelle|Lorelle]] 03:42, 24 May 2005 (UTC)
* State of the Codex
** Holes in Documentation
** WordPress Site identity/unification. Can we have everything under the wordpress.org site? Like Codex as is or docs.wordpress.org or wordpress.org/docs and wordpress.org/faqs or faqs.wordpress.org, developing a core "brand" site location? [[User:Lorelle|Lorelle]] 03:42, 24 May 2005 (UTC)
** Holes in Process/Efforts/Methods
* <strike>Localized version of WP in a sort of wp-locale.org repository?</strike> --[[User:SteveAgl|SteveAgl]] 15:53, 20 May 2005 (UTC) (I wont' be able to be online)
* <strike>Setup a WP Approved programs for plugins and themes, that will works with current release and meets some requirements like: standard doc and istruction, code full validate, I10n available etc.</strike> - --[[User:SteveAgl|SteveAgl]] 16:06, 20 May 2005 (UTC) (I wont' be able to be online)
* State of the Forum
** Are or are not "Your WordPress" posts in Forum going off the Latest Discussion list - do we need to warn or just do?
* What's Next?
** 1.5.2 or 1.6 ([[Version_1.6|1.6 goals and suggestions]])
** Backup Day/Week
** Theme section
* Projects
** Theme gardener - Mike Little
** Wiki Working Group - new mailing list
** bbPress - mdawaffe
** OpenID - Firas
** TortoiseSVN tutorial - Firas

=== "Minutes" ===
[[IRC_Meetups/2005/May/May25Transcript|Transcription of the meetup]]

[[IRC_Meetups/2005/May/May25RawLog|Raw log of the meetup]]

== 2005-05-18 ==

The meetup will be at '''#wordpress-meetup'''

=== Suggested Topics ===

* Timeline for 1.5.2 Release and review of outstanding issues [[User:Twistedraisin|Twistedraisin]] 21:44, 17 May 2005 (UTC)
* Status/Impact/Issue of [http://wrc.os42.com/ WordPress Reference Centre] (Discuss it even if I'm not there)
* Loss of the great theme viewer at [http://wrc.os42.com/ OX42 aka WordPress Reference Centre] and how can we host this somewhere where the bandwidth issue is better handled?
** Suggest that themes be checked-in to wp-themes.org repo with a thumbnail so theme previews and installs can be automated. --[[User:ringmaster|Ringmaster]] 20:22, 18 May 2005 (UTC)
* Mucho thanks to all who signed up for [[Codex:Tasks]] and the documentation team and all who are beginning to increase their contributions.  It is VERY appreciated.  Let's keep up the energy.  [[User:Lorelle|Lorelle]] 02:32, 18 May 2005 (UTC)

=== "Minutes" ===
[[IRC_Meetups/2005/May/May18Transcript|Transcription of the meetup]]

[[IRC_Meetups/2005/May/May18RawLog|Raw log of the meetup]]

== 2005-05-11 ==

The meetup will be at '''#wordpress-meetup'''

=== Suggested Topics ===
* Updates from last week's topics
* We should switch channels so regular support and chat don't overlap. #wp-meeting or something to that effect (Jonabad)
* Possibility of opening the logo to submissions from the community, those submissions to be discussed at a later date (tkroo)
* Possibility of assigning "positions or areas of responsiblity" for coordindation of the various Codex activities and assignments. [[User:Lorelle|Lorelle]] 22:39, 6 May 2005 (UTC)
* Timeline for an RSS Patch/1.5.2 (jonabad)
* Internationalized support (neuro)
* Conclude the professional support discussion started earlier (Carthik)
* Does/should WP have a standardized "powered by" emblem/icon or other such seal for users to place on their site? (Jefte)
* Any other things that should be fit into 1.5.2 release? --[[User:MCincubus|MCincubus]] 21:02, 11 May 2005 (UTC)
* Roadmap for next version, future development direction (Carthik)

=== "Minutes" ===

[[IRC_Meetups/2005/May/May11Transcript|Transcription of the meetup]]

[[IRC_Meetups/2005/May/May11RawLog|Raw log of the meetup]]

== 2005-05-04 ==
=== Agenda ===
* State of the Word (how things are going)
* 1.5.1 Release
* Hosting page on wp.org
* Tags on forums and scaling support
* New logo
* Ideas and brainstorming
* Improving Support / WP Consultants

=== "Minutes" ===

[[IRC_Meetups/2005/May/May04Transcript|Detailed transcription of the meetup]]

[[IRC_Meetups/2005/May/May04RawLog|Raw log of the meetup]]



[[IRC Meetups|Back to IRC Meetups]]

[[Category:About WordPress]]
[[Category:Meetings]]
[[Category:WordPress Development]]