===2005/09/28===
====Topics====
# Forum Status
# New Look - Merger of Codex/Forum status
# Copyrights of Codex
## Copyrights
## License
## Derivatives
# WordPress ''world tour''
====Raw log====
:[[IRC Meetups/2005/September/September28RawLog|Raw log for 09/28/05]]
===2005/09/21===
====Topics====
# Copyright. I propose that the copyright of Codex be handed over to the FSF ([http://www.fsf.org Free Software Foundation] so that they become both the guardian of it's GPL status and the arbiter of any disagreements. The FSF is a known organisation with a proven track record. It has the knowledge, experience and resources which no other organisation we can get involved with has. I also propose that this issue to dealt with quickly. --[[User:Podz|Podz]] 07:48, 20 Sep 2005 (GMT)
# Forums. WordPress.com - I propose a separate forum structure for reasons outlined here: http://comox.textdrive.com/pipermail/wp-forums/2005-September/000537.html --[[User:Podz|Podz]] 20:46, 21 Sep 2005 (GMT)
# In reference to [http://comox.textdrive.com/pipermail/wp-hackers/2005-September/002742.html this], what are the plans for WordPress and WordPress MU in regard to keeping code separation?  A lot of feature requirements from MU are seeping over into WordPress core, which doesn't really need them.  Can we expect that the two will be the same thing eventually?  --[[User:ringmaster|ringmaster]]
====Raw log====
:[[IRC Meetups/2005/September/September21RawLog|Raw log for 09/21/05]]
===2005/09/14===
====Topics====
# New WordPress.org design - Status and Date? -- [[User:Matt|matt]]
# Changes to Forum? Status from mdawaffe
# Thanks again for cleaning up Codex and Forum searches - but need links to Codex on results page [[User:Lorelle|Lorelle]] 20:26, 14 Sep 2005 (GMT)
# Holes in Codex Documentation - needs a kick start - ideas? [[User:Lorelle|Lorelle]] 20:24, 14 Sep 2005 (GMT)
# User system, specifically adding users from outside users.php [[User:Skeltoac|Skeltoac]]
# Volunteers needed to help Codex quarterly PDF's. Status. --[[User:Podz|Podz]]
# Clarification of Codex license.  Is GPL appropriate, and if so, then where should the license appear?  --[[User:ringmaster|ringmaster]]
# Install WordPress for a Friend campaign? Any action on that or waiting for 1.6? [[User:Lorelle|Lorelle]] 20:24, 14 Sep 2005 (GMT)
# How is wordpress.com going? 
# (put me at the bottom of the list, not mission critical, but I'd like to share) WRC theme viewer update [[User:SteveCooley|SteveCooley]]

====Raw log====
:[[IRC Meetups/2005/September/September14RawLog|Raw log for 09/14/05]]
===2005/09/07===
====Topics====
# Volunteers needed to help with turning all this into PDF's. --[[User:Podz|Podz]] 16:27, 7 Sep 2005 (GMT)
# Status of Nightlies -- [[User:MDAWaffe|MDAWaffe]] - [[User_Talk:MDAWaffe|Talk]] 19:41, 7 Sep 2005 (GMT)
# New WordPress.org design -- [[User:Matt|matt]] 20:44, 7 Sep 2005 (GMT)

====Raw log====
:[[IRC Meetups/2005/September/September07RawLog|Raw log for 09/07/05]]

[[IRC Meetups|Back to IRC Meetups]]

[[Category:About WordPress]]
[[Category:Meetings]]
[[Category:WordPress Development]]