Summary of the [[IRC_Meetups/2005/June#2005-06-29|29 June 2005]] WordPress IRC Meetup.

The [[IRC_Meetups/2005/June/June29RawLog|Raw log]] is available.

= WordPress Wednesday =

* <photomatt> right now two JS hackers from jotspot and the Dojo project are over at my place hacking away

= Past Topics =

== Extend/Plugins ==

The official directory could use some coding help.

* photomatt: 'no progress has been made since last week', so nothing new to report.
* mdawaffe asks if only photomatt is working on it?
* photomatt: just me right now. Firas is working on something similar and I'd be happy to have some help with what we're doing
* Firas: yeah, i'd be happy to help out with the official directory but i also don't want to limit to the svn repo in terms of listinsg

== Quick Linking to Codex ==

WordPress Support forums will gain ability to link to Codex articles with the [[Pagename]] syntax used in MediaWiki.

* mdawaffe: 'a quick-link syntax would be divine: Template Tag or <codex Template Tag />'
* photomatt: 'that would be groovy'
* skippy: 'is there a preference for quick-link syntax? [[]] == bbPress. < /> == faux HTML.'
* photomatt: I really like the [[]] syntax
(Most who chime in agree that [[]] is good.)

== WP Logo ==

Work on the WordPress logo is on hold for now, awaiting a new design.

photomatt: new logo is waiting for the new design, which is currently on hold because more important stuff is taking precendence
Jalenack: is there a link with current status of the image?
MCincubus: http://photomatt.net/temp/ but nothing really to discuss
mdawaffe: photomatt: will the new whatnot be rolled out before or with the next version?
mdawaffe: but i suppose it doesn't really matter
photomatt: yeah it's not really a release holdup

= Suggested Topics =

== WordPress Openness ==


[[IRC Meetups|Back to IRC Meetups]]

[[Category:About WordPress]]
[[Category:Meetings]]
[[Category:WordPress Development]]