==Description==
Add an endpoint, like /trackback/.

Adding an endpoint creates extra rewrite rules for each of the matching places specified by the provided bitmask. A new query var with the same name as the endpoint will also be created.  The string following the endpoint definition supplies the value for this query var (e.g. "/foo/bar/" becomes "?foo=bar").

==Usage==

 <?php add_rewrite_endpoint( $name, $places ); ?>

For example:

  add_rewrite_endpoint( 'json', EP_PERMALINK | EP_PAGES );

will add a new rewrite rule ending with "json(/(.*))?/?$" for every permastruct that describes a permalink (post) or page. This is rewritten to "json=$match" where $match is the part of the URL matched by the endpoint regex (e.g. "<permalink>/json/foo/" becomes "<permalink>/?json=foo").

When specifying $places ensure that you are using the EP_* constants (or a combination of them using the bitwise OR operator) as their values are not guaranteed to remain static (especially EP_ALL).

==Arguments==

; $name : (''string'') The name of the endpoint

; $places : (''int'') Endpoint mask describing the places the endpoint should be added. One of the EP_* constants (e.g. EP_PERMALINK) or a combination of them (e.g. EP_PERMALINK | EP_PAGES).

==Available Places==
As of version 3.9.1, the following EP_* constants are available for use in the $places parameter:

; <tt>EP_NONE</tt> : Endpoint Mask for default, which is nothing. <br /> Bitwise value: 0
; <tt>EP_PERMALINK</tt> : Endpoint Mask for Permalink. <br /> Bitwise value: 1
; <tt>EP_ATTACHMENT</tt> : Endpoint Mask for Attachment. <br /> Bitwise value: 2
; <tt>EP_DATE</tt> : Endpoint Mask for date. <br /> Bitwise value: 4
; <tt>EP_YEAR</tt> : Endpoint Mask for year <br /> Bitwise value: 8
; <tt>EP_MONTH</tt> : Endpoint Mask for month. <br /> Bitwise value: 16
; <tt>EP_DAY</tt> : Endpoint Mask for day. <br /> Bitwise value: 32
; <tt>EP_ROOT</tt> : Endpoint Mask for root. <br /> Bitwise value: 64
; <tt>EP_COMMENTS</tt> : Endpoint Mask for comments. <br /> Bitwise value: 128
; <tt>EP_SEARCH</tt> : Endpoint Mask for searches. <br /> Bitwise value: 256
; <tt>EP_CATEGORIES</tt> : Endpoint Mask for categories. <br /> Bitwise value: 512
; <tt>EP_TAGS</tt> : Endpoint Mask for tags. <br /> Bitwise value: 1024
; <tt>EP_AUTHORS</tt> : Endpoint Mask for authors. <br /> Bitwise value: 2048
; <tt>EP_PAGES</tt> : Endpoint Mask for pages. <br /> Bitwise value: 4096
; <tt>EP_ALL_ARCHIVES</tt> : Endpoint Mask for all archive views. <br /> Same as using ''EP_DATE | EP_YEAR | EP_MONTH | EP_DAY | EP_CATEGORIES | EP_TAGS | EP_AUTHORS''
; <tt>EP_ALL</tt> : Endpoint Mask for everything. <br /> Same as using ''EP_PERMALINK | EP_ATTACHMENT | EP_ROOT | EP_COMMENTS | EP_SEARCH | EP_PAGES | EP_ALL_ARCHIVES''

==What it does==

This adds the endpoint to all link types indicated (e.g. posts, pages, category, author, search) and then template-loader.php includes the relevant handler file.

The name of the endpoint is added as query variable and this gets as value any text present after the endpoint name, separated from the name with a '/'. The [[Plugin API/Action Reference/template redirect|<code>template_redirect</code>]] action hook should test this query variable.

This can be used for all sorts of things:
* ajax handler
* form submission handler
* alternative notification handler

==Related ==
{{Rewrite API}}

==External Resources==
* [http://make.wordpress.org/plugins/2012/06/07/rewrite-endpoints-api/ Rewrite Endpoint API Tutorial]