==Description==

<tt>admin_print_scripts</tt> mainly used to echo inline javascript in admin pages header.
<code>admin_print_scripts</code> '''should not be used to enqueue styles or scripts''' on the admin pages. Use <code>[[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/admin_enqueue_scripts|admin_enqueue_scripts]]</code> instead.

==Usage==

<pre><?php add_action( 'admin_print_scripts', 'function_name' ); ?></pre>

where "function_name" is the name of the function to be called.

==Example==
<pre>
function admin_inline_js(){
	echo "<script type='text/javascript'>\n";
	echo 'var pluginUrl = ' . wp_json_encode( WP_PLUGIN_URL . '/my_plugin/' ) . ';';
	echo "\n</script>";
}
add_action( 'admin_print_scripts', 'admin_inline_js' );
</pre>

Result:

<pre>
<script type='text/javascript'>
var pluginUrl = "http://website.com/wp-content/plugins/my_plugin/";
</script>
</pre>

Note that we use <tt>[https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_json_encode/ wp_json_encode()]</tt> to prepare the value for <tt>pluginURL</tt> before embedding it in the JavaScript code. It is important to always use <tt>wp_json_encode()</tt> when passing values from PHP to JavaScript, to avoid the possibility of XSS security vulnerabilities.

== Note ==
<code>admin_print_scripts</code> should not be used to enqueue styles or scripts on the admin pages. Use <code>[[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/admin_enqueue_scripts|admin_enqueue_scripts]]</code> instead.
<code>admin_print_scripts</code> could be used to insert inline script in admin pages header while
<code>admin_print_footer_scripts</code> could be used to insert inline script in admin pages footer

== Source File ==

<tt>admin_print_scripts()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/functions.wp-scripts.php}}

== See also ==
* <code>[[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/wp_enqueue_scripts|wp_enqueue_scripts]]</code> - for enqueuing on the front end
* <code>[[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/login_enqueue_scripts|login_enqueue_scripts]]</code> - for enqueuing on the login page
* <code>[[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/admin_enqueue_scripts|admin_enqueue_scripts]]</code> - for enqueuing on admin pages

== External Links ==
* [http://make.wordpress.org/core/2011/12/12/use-wp_enqueue_scripts-not-wp_print_styles-to-enqueue-scripts-and-styles-for-the-frontend/ Use wp_enqueue_scripts() not wp_print_styles()]

== Related ==
{{Enqueue Functions Related}}

[[Category:Actions]]