
==Description==
Notices displayed near the top of admin pages.  The hook function should echo a message to be displayed. 

== Usage ==
<pre>&lt;div class="{class}">&lt;p>{message}&lt;/p>&lt;/div></pre>

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|{class}|string|The class of admin notice. Should be <code>notice</code> plus any one of <code>notice-error</code>, <code>notice-warning</code>, <code>notice-success</code>, or <code>notice-info</code>. Optionally use <code>is-dismissible</code> to apply a closing icon.}}
{{Parameter|{message}|string|Message to show to user}}

==Example==
<pre>function sample_admin_notice__success() {
    ?>
    <div class="notice notice-success is-dismissible">
        <p><?php _e( 'Done!', 'sample-text-domain' ); ?></p>
    </div>
    <?php
}
add_action( 'admin_notices', 'sample_admin_notice__success' );</pre>

The class <code>notice-success</code> will display the message with a white background and a <strong>green</strong> left border.

<pre>function sample_admin_notice__error() {
	$class = 'notice notice-error';
	$message = __( 'Irks! An error has occurred.', 'sample-text-domain' );

	printf( '<div class="%1$s"><p>%2$s</p></div>', esc_attr( $class ), esc_html( $message ) ); 
}
add_action( 'admin_notices', 'sample_admin_notice__error' );</pre>

The class <code>notice-error</code> will display the message with a white background and a <strong>red</strong> left border.

Use <code>notice-warning</code> for a <strong>yellow/orange</strong>, and <code>notice-info</code> for a <strong>blue</strong> left border.

<strong>Don’t use <code>update-nag</code> as a class name!</strong> 
It is not suitable for regular admin notices, as it will apply different layout styling to the message. Additionally it will trigger the message to be moved above the page title (<code>&lt;h1></code>), thus semantically prioritizing it above other notices which is not likely to be appropriate in a plugin or theme context. 

The class name <code>is-dismissible</code> will automatically trigger a closing icon to be added to your message via JavaScript. Its behavior, however, applies only on the current screen. It will not prevent a message from re-appearing once the page re-loads, or another page is loaded.

== Disable Nag Notices ==

In late 2017, an unofficial defined constant was proposed by LittleBizzy as a voluntary way for plugin or theme authors to allow for hiding certain admin notices that may be considered bothersome by some webmasters. It can be used as follows:

    define('DISABLE_NAG_NOTICES', true);

This code snippet, called a "defined constant" in PHP, can be added to your <code>wp-config.php</code> file, your theme <code>functions.php</code> file, or using a free plugin like [https://wordpress.org/plugins/custom-functions-littlebizzy/ Custom Functions] by LittleBizzy or [https://wordpress.org/plugins/my-custom-functions/ My Custom Functions] by Space X-Chimp.

It should be noted that there is not universal support for this constant, although a limited number of plugin and theme authors have began to support it. A typical use case might be for hiding recurring "nag" notices that ask users to review their extension on WordPress.org, etc. Furthermore, it should not have any effect on general notices that appear within WP Admin, and is simply a way for extensions to opt-in to disabling certain notices at their own discretion.

== Related ==
* [[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/network_admin_notices|network_admin_notices]]
* [[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/user_admin_notices|user_admin_notices]]
* [[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/all_admin_notices|all_admin_notices]]

[[Category:Actions]]