==Description==
This [[Plugin API/Action Reference|action hook]] allows you to access data for a new user immediately '''after''' they are added to the database. The user id is passed to hook as an argument. 

Not all user meta data has been stored in the database when this action is triggered. For example, nickname is in the database but first_name and last_name are not (as of 3.9.1). The password has already been encrypted when this action is triggered.

Typically, this hook is used for saving additional user meta passed by custom registration forms.

==Parameters==
This hook is passed one parameter:
;$user_id: The user ID.

==Example==
This example will save a <tt>first_name</tt> field passed by a custom registration field. 

Also, keep in mind that validation of registration fields should ''not'' be performed within this hook! Validate using the <tt>[[Plugin_API/Filter_Reference/registration_errors|registration_errors]]</tt> hook, instead (the <tt>user_register</tt> hook will not be called if <tt>registration_errors</tt> validation fails).
 
<pre>
add_action( 'user_register', 'myplugin_registration_save', 10, 1 );

function myplugin_registration_save( $user_id ) {

    if ( isset( $_POST['first_name'] ) )
        update_user_meta($user_id, 'first_name', $_POST['first_name']);

}
</pre>

==Source File==
<tt>user_register</tt> is located in {{Trac|/wp-includes/user.php}} within the function [[Function_Reference/wp_insert_user|wp_insert_user()]]

==Related==
===Tutorials===
* [[Customizing the Registration Form]]
===Action Hooks===
* [[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/register_form|register_form]]
* [[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/register_post|register_post]]
* [[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/user_register|user_register]]
===Filter Hooks===
* [[Plugin_API/Filter_Reference/registration_errors|registration_errors]]

Return to [[Plugin API/Action Reference]]

[[Category:Actions]]