{{Languages|
{{en|Plugin API/Action Reference/wp_footer}}
{{ja|プラグイン API/アクションフック一覧/wp_footer}}
}}

==Description==

The '''<tt>wp_footer</tt> action''' is triggered near the <tt></body></tt> tag of [[Theme Development#Template Files|the user's template]] by the [[Function Reference/wp_footer|<tt>wp_footer()</tt> function]]. Although this is theme-dependent, it is one of the most essential theme hooks, so it is fairly widely supported.

This hook provides no parameters. You use this hook by having your function echo output to the browser, or by having it perform background tasks. Your functions shouldn't return, and shouldn't take any parameters.

This hook is theme-dependent which means that it is up to the author of each WordPress theme to include it. It may not be available on all themes, so you should take this into account when using it.

When included, the default output for this function is the admin panel which will be shown in the top of the theme.
It should be kept in the footer for every theme because most of the plugin bind their script files or functions to this hook.

This hook is an action which means that it primarily acts as an event trigger, instead of a content filter. This is a semantic difference, but it will help you to remember what this hook does if you use it like this:
<pre>
<?php
function your_function() {
    echo '<p>This is inserted at the bottom</p>';
}
add_action( 'wp_footer', 'your_function' );
?>
</pre>

== Set priority of your action ==
If you want to influence the moment that your hook is executed, you can append an integer as 3rd argument to add_action:

<pre>
<?php
function your_function() {
    echo '<p>This is inserted at the bottom</p>';
}
add_action( 'wp_footer', 'your_function', 100 );
?>
</pre>

The higher the number, the lower the priority and as a result your hook will be executed further down the page. Enqueued scripts are executed at priority level 20.

== Loading jQuery ==
To load jQuery you need to use enqueue function. As described enqueue script executed at priority level 20.

<pre>
<?php
function load_js() {
    wp_enqueue_script('jquery');
}
add_action( 'wp_footer', 'load_js');
?>
</pre>
Here you can find more Wp_Footer [http://www.twoclock.com/wp_footer-wordpress-action-hook/ <tt>Reference & Examples</tt>]

{{Stub}}

== See also ==

* [http://www.twoclock.com/wp_footer-wordpress-action-hook/ Wp_Footer Reference/ Examples]
* [[Plugin API]]
* [[Plugin API/Action Reference]]

[[Category:Actions]]