{{Languages|
{{en|Plugin API/Action Reference/wp_head}}
{{it|API dei Plugin/Riferimento azioni/wp_head}}
{{ja|Plugin_API/Action_Reference/wp_head}}
}}

==Description==

The '''<tt>wp_head</tt> action hook''' is triggered within the <tt><head></head></tt> section of [[Theme Development#Template Files|the user's template]] by the [[Function Reference/wp_head|<tt>wp_head()</tt> function]]. Although this is theme-dependent, it is one of the most essential theme hooks, so it is widely supported.

This function is simply a wrapper for:
<pre>
<?php
do_action('wp_head');
?>
</pre>

This hook provides no parameters. You use this hook by having your function echo output to the browser, or by having it perform background tasks. Your functions shouldn't return, and shouldn't take any parameters.

This hook is theme-dependent which means that it is up to the author of each WordPress theme to include it. It may not be available on all themes, so you should take this into account when using it.

This hook is an action which means that it primarily acts as an event trigger, instead of a content filter. This is a semantic difference, but it will help you to remember what this hook does if you use it like this:

<pre>
<?php
add_action('wp_head', 'your_function');
?>
</pre>

See [[Plugin API#Actions|Plugin API - Actions]] for more detail.

== Default Actions ==

Most of default actions into the <tt>'wp-head'</tt> hook by WordPress core are set up in {{Trac|wp-includes/default-filters.php}}. If you need to [[Plugin API#Removing Actions and Filters|remove]] a default hook, this file will give you the priority for which to use to remove the hook.

== Examples ==


Add custom css within head section using wp_head action. 

<pre>
function hook_css() {
    ?>
        <style>
            .wp_head_example {
                background-color : #f1f1f1;
            }
        </style>
    <?php
}
add_action('wp_head', 'hook_css');

</pre>

Add custom javascript within head section using wp_head action. 

<pre>

function hook_javascript() {
    ?>
        <script>
            alert('Page is loading...');
        </script>
    <?php
}
add_action('wp_head', 'hook_javascript');

</pre>

== Source File ==

<tt>wp_head</tt> action hook is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/general-template.php}}

== See also ==

* [[Plugin API]]
* [[Plugin API/Action Reference]]

{{Stub}}
[[Category:Actions]]