The wp_insert_post action fires once a post has been saved. You have the ability to set it to only fire on new posts or on all save actions using the parameters. Please see [[Plugin_API/Action_Reference/save_post]] for more information. Keep in mind that this action is called both for actions in the admin as well as anytime the wp_insert_post() function is invoked. 

This action can be replicated by creating a conditional in a [[Plugin API/Action Reference/save_post|save_post]] action that excludes certain post statuses. 

==Parameters==
*$post_ID - (int) Post ID.
*$post - (WP_Post) Post object.
*$update - (bool) Whether this is an existing post being updated or not.

== Examples ==
Below is a basic example that will send an email every time a post or page is created or updated on your website.

<pre>
function my_project_updated_send_email( $post_id, $post, $update ) {

	// If this is a revision, don't send the email.
	if ( wp_is_post_revision( $post_id ) )
		return;

	$post_url = get_permalink( $post_id );
	$subject = 'A post has been updated';

	$message = "A post has been updated on your website:\n\n";
	$message .= $post->post_title . ": " . $post_url;

	// Send email to admin.
	wp_mail( 'admin@example.com', $subject, $message );
}
add_action( 'wp_insert_post', 'my_project_updated_send_email', 10, 3 );
</pre>

== Source File ==
Triggered by [[Function Reference/wp_insert_post|wp_insert_post]] and [[Function Reference/wp_publish_post|wp_publish_post]] in {{Trac|wp-includes/post.php}}

== Related ==

=== Actions ===
* Saving
** [[Plugin API/Action Reference/edit_post|edit_post]]
** [[Plugin API/Action Reference/save_post|save_post]]
** [[Plugin API/Action Reference/wp_insert_post|wp_insert_post]]

=== Filters ===
* [[Plugin API/Filter Reference/redirect_post_location|redirect_post_location]] - redirects a user to a certain location after post creation

{{Stub}}

[[Category:Actions]]