== Description ==
This action hook is fired once WordPress, all plugins, and the theme are fully loaded and instantiated.

== Usage ==
<pre>add_action( 'wp_loaded', 'your callback function' );</pre>

== Example ==
Minify HTML codes when page is output
<pre>
add_action( 'wp_loaded','my_minify_html' );
function my_minify_html() {
	// Use html_compress($html) function to minify html codes.
	ob_start('html_compress');
}

function html_compress( $html ) {
	// Some minify codes here...
	return $html;
}
</pre>

If you only want to load a function only in the front end.
<pre>
// If u want to load a function only in the front end.
add_action( 'wp_loaded', 'my_front_end_function');
function my_front_end_function() {
    if ( !is_admin() ) { 
        // Only target the front end
        // Do what you need to do
    }
}
</pre>

Same as above, but using anonymous function (PHP 5.3 or higher).
<pre>
add_action( 'wp_loaded', function () {
    if ( !is_admin() ) {
        // Only target the front end
        // Do what you need to do
    }
});
</pre>

== Notes ==

AJAX requests should use wp-admin/admin-ajax.php. admin-ajax.php can handle requests for users not logged in.

The wp_loaded action fires after init but before admin_init.

* Front-End: init -> widgets_init -> wp_loaded
* Admin: init -> widgets_init -> wp_loaded -> admin_menu -> admin_init

== Change Log ==

Since: [[Version 3.0|3.0]]

== Source File ==

The <tt>wp_loaded</tt> action is located in {{Trac|wp-settings.php}}

[[Category:Actions]]