This week the transcription was done on the fly during the meeting so its not as fluid as it normally is/will be. Here's the [[IRC_Meetups/2005/May/May25RawLog|Raw log of the meetup]]


=Update on open task items=
* 1.5.1.1 was released. Woot. The people are happy. MCincubus: "It's the solid base we've been wanting..."
* [http://themes.wordpress.net/theme-viewer.php WordPress Resource Center and Theme Viewer]
** Photomatt: I set up shadow an account he put the theme stuff on so I think that's taken care of now

=Codex Cleanup Week=
* http://codex.wordpress.org/Codex:Cleanup
* relle: SIGN UP NOW and we'll have a schedule within in a week or so. We are doing it a little differently.  It's nine days not a weekend. We will be asking for volunteers to sign up and to request assignments. We will be handing out homework.

=WP Groups= 
* WordPress User Groups = WPUGS, email [[User:Lorelle|relle]] about your local meetup 

=State of the Codex=
* It is awesome and will get awesomer
==Holes in Documentation==
* skippy: working example of home.php as a splash page.
* [[User:Lorelle/Articles_Wanted]] is the place to say what's missing
* We desperately need documentation and advanced technique articles.

=State of the Forum=
* New tag for the forums: "Needscodex" for when someone looked for an answer in the codex and didn't find one
* Are or are not "Your WordPress" posts in Forum going off the Latest Discussion list - do we need to warn or just do?: YourWordpress is got the boot off the front page of /Support

=What's Next?=
* 1.5.2 or 1.6 (1.6 goals and suggestions) 
** Decision in a week
* Backup Day/Week 
** Relle and podz are working on documentation for backing up your wp and sponsoring a day/week for people to backup their WP installs
** [http://www.lesterchan.net/portfolio/programming.php WP 1.5 Database Manager by GaMerZ]
*** Screenshots of its functionality: [http://www.jonabad.com/storage/dbmg%20screens/backup_db.png Backup DB], [http://www.jonabad.com/storage/dbmg%20screens/delete_backup.png Delete DB], [http://www.jonabad.com/storage/dbmg%20screens/manage_db.png Manage DB], [http://www.jonabad.com/storage/dbmg%20screens/optimize_db.png Optimize DB], [http://www.jonabad.com/storage/dbmg%20screens/restore_db.png Restore DB], [http://www.jonabad.com/storage/dbmg%20screens/runsql.png Run SQL Query]
** [http://weblogtoolscollection.com/archives/2005/02/06/backup-plugin-for-wordpress-15/ One Click Backup Plugin] and [http://catsutorials.catsudon.org/?p=13 Screenshots of it]
** photomatt: and the hackers can focus on integrating backup for 1.5.2
==Assigned Projects==
* theme gardener - moving 3-6 themes into wp-themes.org and cleaning them up, to be distributed on /extend/themes - Mike Little
* bbPress - another core dev for the bbpress project, focus would be integrating WP user system and extending profiles - mdawaffe
* OpenID - someone to investigate writing a OpenID authentication plugin - firas is team leader bravo- will deliver newz in a week
* Wiki Working Group - new mailing list
* TortoiseSVN tutorial - Firas


[[IRC Meetups|Back to IRC Meetups]]

[[Category:About WordPress]]
[[Category:Meetings]]
[[Category:WordPress Development]]