[17:00] <photomatt_lap> howdy folks
<br />[17:00] <photomatt_lap> <meetup>
<br />[17:00] * Joins: ringmaster
<br />[17:00] * Quits: gsnedders
<br />[17:01] <photomatt_lap> let's keep today extra-short
<br />[17:01] <photomatt_lap> I'm in ireland so I know what you GMT folks feel about the time ;)
<br />[17:01] <Podz_> LOL - about time too
<br />[17:01] <photomatt_lap> we have nothing on the agenda, so unless anyone has any pressing items, we can probably just call it a week
<br />[17:02] <ringmaster> Nonces seem committed.  Please test.
<br />[17:02] * Joins: rboren
<br />[17:03] * Joins: skeltoac
<br />[17:03] <photomatt_lap> anything else?
<br />[17:03] <photomatt_lap> the nonce code looks good
<br />[17:04] <rboren> Working well for me.
<br />[17:04] * Joins: undersigned
<br />[17:04] <skeltoac> I upgraded and didn't even notice, so I guess it's all good for me :)
<br />[17:04] <ringmaster> Cool.
<br />[17:04] <photomatt_lap> cool :)
<br />[17:05] <photomatt_lap> alright, anything before we conclude?
<br />[17:05] <undersigned> :0)
<br />[17:05] <photomatt_lap> the world's shortest WP meetup
<br />[17:05] <stevecooley> jeesh, what am I going to do with the rest of my hour, haha
<br />[17:05] <stevecooley> get back to work, I suppose :)
<br />[17:05] <undersigned> can i quickly add someting about the theme viewer
<br />[17:05] <rboren> I was one minute late and missed most of it.
<br />[17:05] <rboren> :-)
<br />[17:06] <rboren> In conclusion, nonce = cool.
<br />[17:06] <skeltoac> So, who's going out for BBQ?
<br />[17:06] <rboren> I'm going out for treadmill.
<br />[17:06] <ringmaster> Dude.  Don't taunt those of us that can't go out for BBQ with your BBQ-ish notions.
<br />[17:07] <undersigned> i have moved the uploading system from the theme park to the theme viewer, and everything works perfectly. Ive created a batch uploading function, and by using that ive uploaded 427 different themes
<br />[17:07] <stevecooley> holy crap, that's awesome Undersigned
<br />[17:08] <photomatt_lap> undersigned: nice!
<br />[17:08] <undersigned> they are uploaded in 4 different categories, 1, 2, 3 and 4 columns
<br />[17:08] <undersigned> they need to be tagged some time
<br />[17:08] <photomatt_lap> so sweet
<br />[17:08] <photomatt_lap> so everything is working out already on the theme front?
<br />[17:09] <undersigned> shadow and i are talking about a few things.. when uploading a theme, selecting if the theme is 1 2 3 or 4 columns, and selecting 5 additional keywords, from a predefined list, and selecting the dominating color
<br />[17:10] <stevecooley> dominating colors being additional tags?
<br />[17:10] <undersigned> and then comments should be enabled, where people can give a theme from 1 to 5 stars, but only if they comment on the same time. "Rate and explain you rated it 5 stars"-alike
<br />[17:10] <undersigned> stevecooley: yea, but making a specific drop down box for color, so every theme gets a color added as tag
<br />[17:10] <stevecooley> ah, ok, that sounds awesome
<br />[17:10] <undersigned> photomatt_lap: everything is working out, quite quickly as well.. the next step is designing it
<br />[17:11] <undersigned> ive stolen the wp.org design and quickly made a gallery view, on the dev-viewer
<br />[17:11] <undersigned> if anyone care to see all the themes ;)
<br />[17:11] <stevecooley> undersigned, would ratings go on the slideshow screen?
<br />[17:11] <stevecooley> or something new maybe
<br />[17:12] <undersigned> stevecooley: i suppose we would want to show the rating, download link and permalink on all possible views..
<br />[17:12] <undersigned> stevecooley: but it should only be possible to rate themes on their respective information site..
<br />[17:13] * Joins: mdawaffe
<br />[17:13] <undersigned> http://themes.wordpress.net/dev/ <- sorry for ripping the wp.org design, just needed something..
<br />[17:13] <stevecooley> ok, sounds really cool... some interesting problems to solve for, but it sounds like it's going to rock
<br />[17:13] <undersigned> thats all the 427 links, batch uploaded, snapshots made in 3 different sizes automatically
<br />[17:13] <undersigned> theme informations taken from style.css
<br />[17:21] <photomatt_lap> and on that note
<br />[17:21] <photomatt_lap> </meetup>


{{meetup}}