<p>[17:31] &lt;relle&gt; Okay, are we ready?
<br /> [17:31] &lt;Podz&gt; don't we need matt&#160;?
<br /> [17:31] &lt;Firas&gt; where's photomatt
<br /> [17:31] &lt;relle&gt; He'll be here when he gets here.
<br /> [17:31] &lt;tunicwriter&gt; Let's... wait a couple minutes, heh. No reason to jump the gun.
<br /> [17:31] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; ok (did someone ding him from #wordpress?)
<br /> [17:31] &lt;Podz&gt; agreed
<br /> [17:32] &lt;relle&gt; &lt;meetup&gt;
<br /> [17:32] &lt;relle&gt; I just got a note from Matt asking me to start the meeting without him.
<br /> [17:32] &lt;tunicwriter&gt; Well then that's completely different.
<br /> [17:32] &lt;Firas&gt; ok, so which ones can we pick off
<br /> [17:32] &lt;relle&gt; First, I call to order a group hug for the Forbes article.
<br /> [17:32] &lt;Firas&gt; this one "Fundraising and Events - WE NEED HELP - sign up and ideas"
<br /> [17:32] &lt;relle&gt; GROUP HUG
<br /> [17:32] &lt;relle&gt; GROUP HUG FIRST
<br /> [17:33] &lt;relle&gt; NOW
<br /> [17:33] &lt;tunicwriter&gt; Why not a group hump?
<br /> [17:33] &lt;Firas&gt; xoxo
<br /> [17:33] * relle hugs tunicwriter
<br /> [17:33] * tunicwriter humps relle
<br /> [17:33] * relle grabs mdawaffe  and hugs him.
<br /> [17:33] * tunicwriter humps mdawaffe
<br /> [17:33] * mdawaffe considers "ass out" hug
<br /> [17:33] &lt;relle&gt; Forbes listed WordPress as Best Blogging Tool and Best Online Community!!!
<br /> [17:33] &lt;PotterSys&gt; whoa!
<br /> [17:33] &lt;relle&gt; Seriously. Everyone should be commended for this.
<br /> [17:34] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; booyah to us all
<br /> [17:34] &lt;tunicwriter&gt; <a rel="nofollow" class="external free" href="http://forbes.com/bow/b2c/review.jhtml?id=7262">http://forbes.com/bow/b2c/review.jhtml?id=7262</a> &lt;-- In case no one got that
<br /> [17:34] &lt;Jalenack&gt; thank you, thank you&#160;:p
<br /> [17:34] &lt;relle&gt; We had no idea that Forbes was "spying" on us.
<br /> [17:34] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; three cheers for Jalenack!
<br /> [17:34] &lt;relle&gt; Kudos to all.
<br /> [17:34] &lt;relle&gt; Great job.
<br /> [17:34] &lt;Jalenack&gt; heh
<br /> [17:34] &lt;tunicwriter&gt; Hip hip... Booyousuck! Hip hip... Booyousuck! ... Hip hip... huzzah *cough*
<br /> [17:34] &lt;relle&gt; Okay, Firas - agenda?
<br /> [17:35] &lt;Firas&gt; it starts with " codex -&gt; wp.org style integration: status? -- DavidHouse"
<br /> [17:35] &lt;relle&gt; Okay, david's not here. robla|afk
<br /> [17:35] &lt;Jalenack&gt; anyone know what their obscure question was?
<br /> [17:35] &lt;relle&gt; You know anything?
<br /> [17:35] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; ...he's... afk
<br /> [17:36] &lt;relle&gt; Okay, the Codex and Forum are "intergrating".
<br /> [17:36] &lt;relle&gt; Skippy, Robla and others are working on it.
<br /> [17:36] &lt;relle&gt; and I mean Inter-Grating.
<br /> [17:36] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; The style is different than the integration of the users, though
<br /> [17:36] &lt;relle&gt; Soon, if all goes well, they will be interconnected.
<br /> [17:36] &lt;Jalenack&gt; whoa
<br /> [17:36] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; but, yes, they're both being worked on, as far as i know
<br /> [17:36] &lt;Jalenack&gt; how, exactly?
<br /> [17:36] &lt;relle&gt; You will be able to move from one to the other seamlessly, if I understand it all right.
<br /> [17:37] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; Jalenack: through the magic of something we call "bbPress" and a ton of work by robla|afk
<br /> [17:37] &lt;tunicwriter&gt; Will the flower be gone?!&#160;:D
<br /> [17:37] &lt;relle&gt; mdawaffe: want to explain?
<br /> [17:37] &lt;relle&gt; yes
<br /> [17:37] &lt;tunicwriter&gt; Huzzah!
<br /> [17:37] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; I don't know anythign about it, really
<br /> [17:37] &lt;Jalenack&gt; brilliant
<br /> [17:37] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; just that bbPress makes it easy to do things like this
<br /> [17:37] &lt;Jalenack&gt; people_doing_work++
<br /> [17:37] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; the trick part is from mediawiki's side
<br /> [17:38] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; it's also easy, because if something needs to be improved in bb to make this happen, we can just do it&#160;:)
<br /> [17:38] &lt;relle&gt; Yeah, open source stuff.
<br /> [17:38] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; that's the entirety of my knowledge on the situation
<br /> [17:39] &lt;Jalenack&gt; is wp.org the only high profile site using bbPress?
<br /> [17:39] &lt;relle&gt; Exciting stuff.
<br /> [17:39] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; Jalenack: to my knowledge
<br /> [17:39] &lt;Jalenack&gt; alright
<br /> [17:39] &lt;relle&gt; Okay, next?
<br /> [17:39] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; there's a lot of people on the mailing list though (though it's pretty quiet)
<br /> [17:39] &lt;tunicwriter&gt; there's a mailing list? Heh.
<br /> [17:39] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; relle: next
<br /> [17:40] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; (tunicwriter yeah - I think a lot of folks are waiting for a first release)
<br /> [17:40] &lt;relle&gt;  IRC Status (please read User:Morydd/IRC_Status_Ideas ) and comment. -- Morydd
<br /> [17:40] &lt;relle&gt; I just buzzed Morydd next door. Hopefully he will get in here.
<br /> [17:40] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; OT: tunicwriter, Jalenack <a rel="nofollow" class="external free" href="http://lists.bbpress.org/mailman/listinfo/bbdev">http://lists.bbpress.org/mailman/listinfo/bbdev</a>
<br /> [17:40] * robla|afk is now known as robla
<br /> [17:40] &lt;relle&gt; See: <a rel="nofollow" class="external free" href="http://codex.wordpress.org/User:Morydd/IRC_Status_Ideas">http://codex.wordpress.org/User:Morydd/IRC_Status_Ideas</a>
<br /> [17:40] &lt;relle&gt; while we wait.
<br /> [17:41] &lt;relle&gt; Ah, robla, while we wait for morydd, can you tell us about the linking up of codex and forum?
<br /> [17:41] &lt;robla&gt; sure
<br /> [17:41] &lt;michel_v&gt; I'd be happy with the forbes article if: 1) Forbes's "best of web" image concept was still relevant, 2) they didn't call Parisist the worst Gothamist blog just because it's only available in French
<br /> [17:41] &lt;robla&gt; auth plugin is written
<br /> [17:42] &lt;robla&gt; should be ready for deployment
<br /> [17:42] &lt;relle&gt; And what will that do?
<br /> [17:42] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; robla: let me know if things can be made easier by tweaking bb
<br /> [17:42] &lt;tunicwriter&gt; michel_v: it's forbes, they're pompous&#160;;P
<br /> [17:43] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; relle: it will mean forums users and codex users will be the same thing
<br /> [17:43] &lt;robla&gt; relle: it means that MediaWiki will check the bbpress database for credentialls
<br /> [17:43] &lt;relle&gt; so user name will cross.
<br /> [17:43] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; what robla said
<br /> [17:43] &lt;robla&gt; relle: yes, there'd need to be a merge of the user databases
<br /> [17:44] &lt;Jalenack&gt; sweet
<br /> [17:44] &lt;relle&gt; And linkability will improve between forum and codex, since the database will be similar/same?
<br /> [17:44] &lt;Firas&gt; no..
<br /> [17:44] &lt;robla&gt; only the credentials would be shared
<br /> [17:44] &lt;michel_v&gt; relle: think more about usability
<br /> [17:44] &lt;relle&gt; There was talk of creating shortcut links to codex articles in posts.
<br /> [17:44] &lt;robla&gt; it's a baby step toward full integration
<br /> [17:44] &lt;Firas&gt; ah, that's another thing
<br /> [17:44] &lt;michel_v&gt; that reduces the hassle of having to register _again_
<br /> [17:44] &lt;Firas&gt; the [[link]] thing
<br /> [17:45] &lt;Jalenack&gt; [[]]++
<br /> [17:45] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; relle: the link thing is in the works
<br /> [17:45] &lt;relle&gt; okay.
<br /> [17:45] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; frankly I don't know why it's not up yet
<br /> [17:45] &lt;relle&gt; robla: anything else that would help people understand this better?
<br /> [17:45] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; but it should be soon
<br /> [17:45] &lt;Jalenack&gt; dev blog announcement
<br /> [17:45] &lt;robla&gt; relle: I have a writeup on codex....just a sec and I'll get the link
<br /> [17:46] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; robla: do you have a plan for DB merging?  collisions, case, ...
<br /> [17:46] &lt;robla&gt; <a rel="nofollow" class="external free" href="http://codex.wordpress.org/User:RobLa/AuthPress_for_MediaWiki">http://codex.wordpress.org/User:RobLa/AuthPress_for_MediaWiki</a>
<br /> [17:46] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; case could be an important issue with mediawiki
<br /> [17:46] &lt;robla&gt; mdawaffe: nope, that's in the open issues
<br /> [17:46] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; k
<br /> [17:47] &lt;relle&gt; And if you all haven't heard about it, Jalenack has a new plugin that adds a search bar to the Admin screen of WP sites.
<br /> [17:47] &lt;relle&gt; It's very cool.
<br /> [17:47] &lt;Jalenack&gt; <a rel="nofollow" class="external free" href="http://blog.jalenack.com/archives/codex-search-plugin/">http://blog.jalenack.com/archives/codex-search-plugin/</a> &lt;--
<br /> [17:47] &lt;relle&gt; Searches Codex and Forum right from any page on the admin panels.
<br /> [17:47] &lt;relle&gt; Again, helping users FIND the information they need.
<br /> [17:47] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; and looks pretty too
<br /> [17:48] * Joins: rboren
<br /> [17:48] &lt;Jalenack&gt; there are a few small issues with it, then I think we'll be able to promote it a lot
<br /> [17:48] &lt;robla&gt; mdawaffe: logins are case insensitive with this plugin
<br /> [17:48] &lt;tunicwriter&gt; As pretty as me.
<br /> [17:48] * robla is a little behind in the conversation
<br /> [17:49] &lt;Jalenack&gt; I think owen was talking about making it completely localized.. searching the french codex and the french support forum for example
<br /> [17:49] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; robla: my forum name, for example, is mdawaffe, but mediwiki needs some CAPS in their usernames, yes?
<br /> [17:49] * mdawaffe doesn't know anything - he just rambles
<br /> [17:49] &lt;robla&gt; mdawaffe: correct
<br /> [17:50] &lt;robla&gt; in a stock MediaWiki install, the first letter of a username is capitalized, whether you request it or not
<br /> [17:50] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; ok - I'll let someone who knows best figure out if that's a problem or not, and, if it is, how to fix it
<br /> [17:51] &lt;robla&gt; is everyone on the wiki-tech mailing list who is interested in this conversation?
<br /> [17:52] &lt;robla&gt; the reason why I ask is that I don't hink we need to take everyone's time here, but I also don't get much feedback anywhere else
<br /> [17:53] &lt;tunicwriter&gt; Yeah, I think we talked this topic out here... What's the link for the mailing list, robla?
<br /> [17:53] &lt;robla&gt; <a rel="nofollow" class="external free" href="http://lists.automattic.com/mailman/listinfo/wiki-tech">http://lists.automattic.com/mailman/listinfo/wiki-tech</a>
<br /> [17:53] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; check - moving on?
<br /> [17:53] * Joins: relle_
<br /> [17:54] &lt;relle_&gt; sorry about that.
<br /> [17:54] &lt;tunicwriter&gt; Any sign of Morydd?
<br /> [17:54] &lt;relle_&gt; <a rel="nofollow" class="external free" href="http://codex.wordpress.org/User:Morydd/IRC_Status_Ideas">http://codex.wordpress.org/User:Morydd/IRC_Status_Ideas</a>
<br /> [17:54] &lt;relle_&gt; Anyone have any comments, input, suggestions on this?
<br /> [17:54] &lt;tunicwriter&gt; I like the bots idea
<br /> [17:55] &lt;relle_&gt; <a rel="nofollow" class="external free" href="http://codex.wordpress.org/User:ringmaster/IRC_Voice">http://codex.wordpress.org/User:ringmaster/IRC_Voice</a> is another one.
<br /> [17:55] &lt;relle_&gt; The bots information is great.
<br /> [17:55] &lt;relle_&gt; Got a link for that?
<br /> [17:56] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; the bots idea seems a very clever solution to me
<br /> [17:56] &lt;relle_&gt; be specific.
<br /> [17:56] &lt;relle_&gt; solution for what?
<br /> [17:56] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; the voice/no voice debate
<br /> [17:57] &lt;relle_&gt; ah.
<br /> [17:57] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; through a bot in there that knows people and can identify their "expertise"
<br /> [17:57] &lt;relle_&gt; good.
<br /> [17:57] &lt;relle_&gt; Anyone have anything to add to this issue?
<br /> [17:57] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; I still think, personally, it's unnecessary, but it sounds like it will appease many people
<br /> [17:58] &lt;PotterSys&gt; how new people in IRC will know about the bot?
<br /> [17:58] &lt;PotterSys&gt; (a message when arrives maybe)
<br /> [17:58] &lt;tunicwriter&gt; The topic
<br /> [17:58] &lt;relle_&gt; the header topic, I think.
<br /> [17:58] &lt;Podz&gt; I'd note here that in the forums the idea of any sort of label has stopped. The playing field is now level and will remain so.
<br /> [17:58] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; PotterSys: I think it should be open - everyone
<br /> [17:58] &lt;relle_&gt; Which is PACKED with information.
<br /> [17:59] &lt;relle_&gt; podz: so a decision has been made?
<br /> [17:59] &lt;Podz&gt; you said as much on the list. Matt is now as 'member' as I am. Skippy can choose on his return I guess.
<br /> [18:00] &lt;Podz&gt; I have said my thoughts more fully on that list. I just wanted this noted here for those that do not read the forum mailing list
<br /> [18:00] &lt;relle_&gt; I'm not in a position to make a decision, I've just been asked by people if a decision was made and it "sounded" like one on the forum mailing list, so we just needed to make sure for the record.
<br /> [18:00] &lt;Podz&gt; I've not been asked by anyone - but I stand by what I have said.
<br /> [18:01] &lt;relle_&gt; Okay, so everyone knows, when you sign in to the Forum, you become a member. And that everyone is a member and that there will be no differentiation between volunteers and members.
<br /> [18:01] &lt;Podz&gt; true
<br /> [18:01] &lt;relle_&gt; Except when you look at the new "pages" of comments on profiles and then you can use that to "judge" membership value.&#160;;-)
<br /> [18:02] &lt;relle_&gt; Podz wins.
<br /> [18:02] &lt;Podz&gt; for heavens sake
<br /> [18:02] &lt;relle_&gt; hee hee
<br /> [18:02] &lt;Podz&gt; if stats do this, they will have to go
<br /> [18:02] &lt;relle_&gt; kidding.
<br /> [18:02] &lt;relle_&gt; Okay <a rel="nofollow" class="external free" href="http://codex.wordpress.org/Fundraising_and_Promotions">http://codex.wordpress.org/Fundraising_and_Promotions</a>
<br /> [18:02] &lt;Podz&gt; I wish you were
<br /> [18:02] &lt;relle_&gt; We still need ideas and help.
<br /> [18:03] &lt;relle_&gt; We have a lot of things happening soon and we need help to coordinate those and to get more stuff going.
<br /> [18:03] &lt;relle_&gt; We'd like to have a fundraiser in the fall and we need bodies.
<br /> [18:03] &lt;relle_&gt; Please sign up and get involved.
<br /> [18:03] &lt;Podz&gt; Why is MU listed there&#160;?
<br /> [18:03] &lt;relle_&gt; Because it is a part of the WordPress "package".
<br /> [18:03] &lt;relle_&gt; The organization's products.
<br /> [18:04] &lt;relle_&gt; The process of promoting WordPress is not much different from promoting MU.
<br /> [18:04] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; very different clientelle
<br /> [18:04] &lt;relle_&gt; Very similar, too.
<br /> [18:04] &lt;relle_&gt; The process of promotion is similar.
<br /> [18:04] &lt;Podz&gt; relle - the two are different. We do not and never have supported MU
<br /> [18:04] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; WP has always been designed for the user, MU has always been designed for the host
<br /> [18:05] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; so the promotion seems different to me
<br /> [18:05] &lt;Podz&gt; Has Matt made this connection &#160;?
<br /> [18:05] &lt;relle_&gt; He asked for help.
<br /> [18:05] &lt;Podz&gt; help for what&#160;?
<br /> [18:05] &lt;relle_&gt; If he doesn't want the PR team to promote it, I'm sure we will hear about it.
<br /> [18:05] &lt;relle_&gt; We really need to get a good fundraiser going this fall.
<br /> [18:05] &lt;Podz&gt; that means he has not asked then&#160;?
<br /> [18:06] &lt;Podz&gt; whatever
<br /> [18:06] &lt;relle_&gt; Matt asked.
<br /> [18:06] &lt;relle_&gt; It's hard to ask for money for a "free" product, so we need some fun ways of making it save to get people to "pay" and support.
<br /> [18:06] &lt;relle_&gt; So any ideas and help are welcome.
<br /> [18:06] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; Podz: to be fair - the forums have never supported (and shouldn't support) MU, but if the PR team and the community at large wants to promote it, that seems fine
<br /> [18:06] &lt;Podz&gt; true.. but then the support will alos be expected ..
<br /> [18:06] &lt;relle_&gt; The PR team promotes ALL things WordPress.
<br /> [18:07] &lt;relle_&gt; Not if the pr statements direct towards the mu forum.
<br /> [18:07] &lt;relle_&gt; And there will be cross over, with or without the PR team because of the name "WordPress" in the title.
<br /> [18:07] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; Podz: again - different clients - I don't think hosts will be bothered by PR telling them MU isn't supported on the WP forums
<br /> [18:07] &lt;relle_&gt; Back to fundraising, any quick ideas on that?
<br /> [18:08] &lt;relle_&gt; Besides the wet-WordPress-t-shirt contest.
<br /> [18:08] &lt;relle_&gt;&#160;;-)
<br /> [18:10] &lt;relle_&gt; Okay, so everyone is still thinking about wet t-shirts.
<br /> [18:10] &lt;relle_&gt; Next:  Development priorities and opportunities for volunteers
<br /> [18:10] &lt;relle_&gt; I think that Matt wanted to bring up the ideas from last week about recruiting volunteers for specific tasks.
<br /> [18:11] &lt;relle_&gt; Am I offline again?
<br /> [18:11] &lt;relle_&gt; Anyone there?
<br /> [18:11] * Quits: relle (Connection timed out�)
<br /> [18:11] &lt;alphaoide&gt; what are the tasks?
<br /> [18:11] &lt;relle_&gt; We need help with fundraising, and with Themes and a lot of things.
<br /> [18:11] &lt;relle_&gt; He's working on a list.
<br /> [18:12] * relle_ is now known as relle
<br /> [18:12] &lt;relle&gt; So we'll put this off until next week unless someone knows of some specifics?
<br /> [18:13] &lt;Firas&gt; yup
<br /> [18:13] &lt;Firas&gt; or until matt gets back
<br /> [18:13] &lt;relle&gt; next?
<br /> [18:13] &lt;relle&gt;  IRC - How to deal with flooding in #wordpress in a more timely manner
<br /> [18:13] &lt;Firas&gt; IRC - How to deal with flooding in #wordpress in a more timely manner (re: pop, last night) -- Tunicwriter 21:21, 27 Jul 2005 (UTC)
<br /> [18:14] &lt;relle&gt; Okay, the channel got spammed with a porn freak last night.
<br /> [18:14] &lt;relle&gt; Firas: want to talk about it and explain what is needed?
<br /> [18:14] &lt;Firas&gt; hah, you weren't there for the fun part
<br /> [18:14] &lt;relle&gt; Details.
<br /> [18:14] &lt;relle&gt; so to speak.
<br /> [18:15] &lt;Firas&gt; it got flooded by an army of his bots after we ticked him off
<br /> [18:15] &lt;Firas&gt; anyway
<br /> [18:15] &lt;relle&gt; wonderful.
<br /> [18:15] &lt;Firas&gt; the only real way to deal with that is to give people ops
<br /> [18:15] &lt;relle&gt; How is that done?
<br /> [18:16] &lt;Firas&gt; matt tells the channel server, that when so and so asks for operator privileges, give it to them
<br /> [18:16] &lt;Firas&gt; then the op sets the channel to silence
<br /> [18:16] &lt;Firas&gt; until the bots go away
<br /> [18:16] &lt;relle&gt; So we need a list of volunteers who will take on operator privedlges when needed.
<br /> [18:17] &lt;relle&gt;&#160;?
<br /> [18:17] &lt;Firas&gt; but hasn't matt being arguing against that for 4 weeks now
<br /> [18:17] &lt;Podz&gt; yes
<br /> [18:17] &lt;relle&gt; Well, I think security is a different issue than "levels"
<br /> [18:17] &lt;Firas&gt; i guess now we see a real need for it..
<br /> [18:17] &lt;Podz&gt; if it does not happen that often though, can't it just be seen as entertainment&#160;?&#160;:)
<br /> [18:17] &lt;Podz&gt; It's not security - it's irc. It happens
<br /> [18:17] &lt;Firas&gt; Podz: it's harassment
<br /> [18:18] &lt;Firas&gt; people's clients and computers just froze
<br /> [18:18] &lt;michel_v&gt; or to call for the help of an irc admin
<br /> [18:18] &lt;io_error&gt; which could take a while
<br /> [18:18] &lt;Firas&gt; yeah, i'd be happy if they responded!
<br /> [18:18] &lt;Firas&gt; they never do
<br /> [18:18] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; I see an analogy here between spam on forums and pr0n on irc.  moderators on forums and ops on irc
<br /> [18:18] &lt;relle&gt; I wouldn't say "never" but slow, sure.
<br /> [18:18] * mdawaffe guesses this has been pointed out already
<br /> [18:19] &lt;io_error&gt; if people are going to get ops, they should have some idea of what they're doing
<br /> [18:19] &lt;Firas&gt; look, nobody needs to stay opped/voiced
<br /> [18:19] &lt;mdawaffe&gt; Firas: ah - good point
<br /> [18:19] &lt;Firas&gt; but to have the option in a couple people is a wise choice
<br /> [18:20] &lt;io_error&gt; the usual method is to have ChanServ op you when needed, and then deop once whatever is over
<br /> [18:20] &lt;Firas&gt; yup
<br /> [18:20] &lt;relle&gt; So how to decide who?
<br /> [18:21] &lt;relle&gt; I think a request should be made, after outlining responsibilities, and 4 people get ops, so the channel is covered 24 hours.
<br /> [18:21] &lt;io_error&gt; I'd say maybe 3 or 4 people at most, to get 24 hour coverage
<br /> [18:21] &lt;relle&gt; They can come in and kick and turn the ops off when done.
<br /> [18:21] &lt;relle&gt; Like Podz does when he pulls out his big stick.
<br /> [18:21] &lt;Firas&gt; and they only take ops once in a couple months, ie, only wheen someone's being really naughty
<br /> [18:21] &lt;relle&gt; What say y'all?
<br /> [18:22] &lt;io_error&gt; This is so obvious, I'
<br /> [18:22] &lt;io_error&gt; I'm surprised it's even a matter of discussion&#160;:)
<br /> [18:22] &lt;relle&gt; Well, since there aren't any ops, it gets discussion.
<br /> [18:22] &lt;relle&gt; Anyone against?
<br /> [18:23] &lt;relle&gt; Okay, io_error, Firas, can you get with ringmaster and morydd and anyone else to come up with a responsiblity description and ask for volunteers.
<br /> [18:23] &lt;relle&gt; Then let Matt know what you've come up with so ops can be delegated.
<br /> [18:23] &lt;relle&gt;&#160;?
<br /> [18:24] &lt;Firas&gt; well, that might all come to naught if matt still isn't into opping anyone else
<br /> [18:24] &lt;io_error&gt; Firas: what did he say about it?
<br /> [18:24] &lt;relle&gt; If you come up with a plan, and it doesn't make anyone "superior" to someone else, but gives security to the IRC, then I don't see how this can be argued.
<br /> [18:25] &lt;relle&gt; Let's give him the benefit of the doubt.
<br /> [18:25] &lt;Firas&gt; ok what's next
<br /> [18:26] &lt;relle&gt; Backup Week is on and we need help on the forums to talk it up.
<br /> [18:26] &lt;relle&gt; Please help with the discussions and bring up issues of backing up on the forum to help people REMEMBER to backup.
<br /> [18:26] &lt;relle&gt; Anyone have any other news, topics?
<br /> [18:27] &lt;relle&gt; Anything on Development?
<br /> [18:27] &lt;relle&gt; rboren: do you have any news/info on development stuff?
<br /> [18:27] &lt;rboren&gt; Here's our targets for 1.6:
<br /> [18:28] &lt;rboren&gt; Capabilities, Media Management, Import/Export, and one click caching.
<br /> [18:28] &lt;rboren&gt; Those are the big ones.
<br /> [18:28] &lt;relle&gt; explain some about capabilities and media management, please?
<br /> [18:29] &lt;rboren&gt; Capabilities replaces user levels.  Owen did a nice writeup on them not too long ago.
<br /> [18:29] &lt;rboren&gt; Media management is better image handling, etc.  We currently suck hard here.
<br /> [18:29] &lt;relle&gt; Will import/export now be on the admin panels?
<br /> [18:29] &lt;relle&gt; Or still run from files?
<br /> [18:30] &lt;rboren&gt; They will be on the admin panel.
<br /> [18:30] &lt;relle&gt; cool.
<br /> [18:30] &lt;rboren&gt; They will be more like plugins.
<br /> [18:30] &lt;rboren&gt; With some framework available to make them easier to write.
<br /> [18:31] &lt;relle&gt; sounds exciting.
<br /> [18:31] &lt;Firas&gt; relle: i see matt on wp-hackers was enthusiastic about the one-click installation type stuff--which is what we're putting together for pmw, so hopefully we can help out with that for whatever version it's going into (we = i, jalenack, masquerade)...
<br /> [18:31] &lt;relle&gt; Firas, can you talk about pmw for a minute?
<br /> [18:31] &lt;Firas&gt; uh.. sure
<br /> [18:31] &lt;relle&gt; So everyone knows what it is.
<br /> [18:31] &lt;Jalenack&gt; good idea
<br /> [18:31] &lt;Firas&gt; It's like wp-plugins.net and WPPM reloaded&#160;:)
<br /> [18:32] &lt;Firas&gt; so
<br /> [18:32] &lt;Jalenack&gt; Using this site as somewhat of a model&#160;: <a rel="nofollow" class="external free" href="http://pimpmysafari.com">http://pimpmysafari.com</a>
<br /> [18:32] &lt;Firas&gt; an easily browsable directory of themes and plugins, and an accompanying one clikc installer
<br /> [18:32] &lt;tunicwriter&gt; (PMW = Pimp My Wordpress, for those wondering)
<br /> [18:32] &lt;Firas&gt; the model in my mind is more like mozilla update, but sure, pimpmysafari site works as well
<br /> [18:33] &lt;relle&gt; Wow
<br /> [18:33] &lt;relle&gt; themes AND plugins?
<br /> [18:33] &lt;Firas&gt; the main difference between those sites and what we're doing
<br /> [18:33] &lt;Firas&gt; is that we're going to organize by tags and let people tag things as they browse
<br /> [18:33] &lt;Jalenack&gt; and also, people will be alerted when their plugins get updated
<br /> [18:34] &lt;Firas&gt; yup, that's the client part.. alerting them upon update is easy, but it's also replace the old files with new ones
<br /> [18:34] &lt;relle&gt; and searches by keywords?
<br /> [18:34] &lt;Jalenack&gt; sure, why not?&#160;;)
<br /> [18:34] &lt;Firas&gt; relle: the tags are keywords
<br /> [18:35] &lt;relle&gt; k
<br /> [18:35] &lt;Firas&gt; but we'll search through the actual readmes as well (ie the plugin description)
<br /> [18:35] &lt;relle&gt; So themes, plugins, and...?
<br /> [18:35] &lt;Firas&gt; we'll put things that aren't bona fide plugins into plugins (such as plugins of plugins&#160;:)
<br /> [18:35] &lt;relle&gt; Ah, so it means that theme and plugin authors got to work harder on their readme files.
<br /> [18:36] &lt;relle&gt; Excellent stuff.
<br /> [18:36] &lt;relle&gt; Okay, so nag relle wants to know WHEN?
<br /> [18:36] &lt;Firas&gt; yeah, i really need them to do the readme stuff i posted to wp-hackers about
<br /> [18:36] &lt;relle&gt; Only after 1.6 is released or before?
<br /> [18:36] &lt;Firas&gt; else they won't get listed
<br /> [18:36] &lt;Firas&gt; relle: as for progress, we're working on the plugins part of the site for now
<br /> [18:37] &lt;Firas&gt; it's coming along nicely
<br /> [18:37] &lt;Firas&gt; not sure of any dates though
<br /> [18:37] &lt;relle&gt; rboren: you are working with them to make the transition between versions and all?
<br /> [18:37] &lt;Podz&gt; Firas:: "When it's ready"&#160;:)
<br /> [18:38] &lt;rboren&gt; What, who, me?
<br /> [18:38] &lt;Firas&gt; hm, i don't believe ryan and i have spoken about anything yet&#160;:)
<br /> [18:38] &lt;relle&gt; um....maybe should start talking?
<br /> [18:38] &lt;Firas&gt; hey rboren!
<br /> [18:38] &lt;rboren&gt;&#160;:-)
<br /> [18:38] &lt;rboren&gt; ryan@boren.nu
<br /> [18:39] &lt;Firas&gt; what do you think of what we're doing? i think it'll be cool for users
<br /> [18:39] &lt;relle&gt; rboren: we're all really excited about 1.6 and have a million questions, but the hammer is on us not to pimp it much, so it makes it hard to ask questions about it.
<br /> [18:39] &lt;rboren&gt; Sounds cool.  I haven't looked at it closely though. I've been in vacation mode.
<br /> [18:40] &lt;Firas&gt; ah, cool.
<br /> [18:41] &lt;relle&gt; Firas, make sure this is on the agenda for next week.
<br /> [18:41] &lt;relle&gt; We'll WANT a status report.&#160;;-)
<br /> [18:41] * Quits: alphaoide (Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer)�)
<br /> [18:41] &lt;Firas&gt; relle, i'm not sure i want to talk much about vapourware
<br /> [18:41] &lt;Firas&gt; but ok
<br /> [18:41] &lt;relle&gt; I think it is great that the next version and projects like this will help WordPress users make their life easier and the process easier.
<br /> [18:42] &lt;relle&gt; A status report isn't show and tell&#160;;-)
<br /> [18:42] &lt;relle&gt; Anyone have anything else?
<br /> [18:43] &lt;tunicwriter&gt; I do!
<br /> [18:43] &lt;tunicwriter&gt; I'm pretty.
<br /> [18:43] &lt;tunicwriter&gt; Fin.
<br /> [18:43] &lt;io_error&gt; I have thoughts on 1.6, but I can save them&#160;:)
<br /> [18:43] &lt;relle&gt; Thanks to everyone for helping and again, BIG GROUP HUG
<br /> [18:43] &lt;relle&gt; Congrats to everyone on the Forbes thing.
<br /> [18:43] &lt;tunicwriter&gt; HUMP! Not hug&#160;:P
<br /> [18:44] &lt;relle&gt; &lt;/meetup&gt;
</p><p><br />
<a href="https://codex.wordpress.org/IRC_Meetups" title="IRC Meetups">Back to IRC Meetups</a>
</p>
<!-- 
NewPP limit report
Cached time: 20190211004030
Cache expiry: 86400
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.032 seconds
Real time usage: 0.036 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 362/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 740/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 0/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 2/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- 
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%    0.000      1 - -total
-->
