{{Languages|
{{en|Template Tags/bloginfo}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/bloginfo}}
{{pt-br|Template Tags/bloginfo}}
{{zh-cn|模板标签/bloginfo}}
}}

== 描述 ==

显示你博客的信息，大多数情况是在'''Administration'''中的'''User Profile''' 和 '''General Options'''中你输入的信息 (Settings &rarr; General). It can be used anywhere within a page template. This always prints a result to the browser.  If you need the values for use in PHP, use [[Function Reference/get_bloginfo|get_bloginfo()]].

== 使用方法 ==

%%% <?php bloginfo( $show ); ?> %%%

== 参数 ==

注意所有url末尾都不带斜杠"/"。 If using  child-theme, that has parent-theme as the parent. 使用没有参数的bloginfo(),会默认为bloginfo(' name ')。
.

<pre>
name                 = Testpilot
description          = Just another WordPress blog
admin_email          = admin@example

url                  = http://example/home
wpurl                = http://example/home/wp

stylesheet_directory = http://example/home/wp/wp-content/themes/child-theme
stylesheet_url       = http://example/home/wp/wp-content/themes/child-theme/style.css
template_directory   = http://example/home/wp/wp-content/themes/parent-theme
template_url         = http://example/home/wp/wp-content/themes/parent-theme

atom_url             = http://example/home/feed/atom
rss2_url             = http://example/home/feed
rss_url              = http://example/home/feed/rss
pingback_url         = http://example/home/wp/xmlrpc.php
rdf_url              = http://example/home/feed/rdf

comments_atom_url    = http://example/home/comments/feed/atom
comments_rss2_url    = http://example/home/comments/feed

charset              = UTF-8
html_type            = text/html
language             = en-US
text_direction       = ltr
version              = 3.1
</pre>

== 例子 ==

=== 显示博客标题 ===

在&lt;h1&gt;标签中显示你的博客标题。

 &lt;h1&gt;<?php bloginfo('name'); ?>&lt;/h1&gt;

=== 显示带链接的博客标题 ===

Displays your blog's title in a link.

 &lt;a href=&#34;&lt;?php bloginfo('url'); ?&gt;&#34; title=&#34;&lt;?php bloginfo('name'); ?&gt;&#34;&gt;&lt;?php bloginfo('name'); ?>&lt;&#47;a&gt;

=== 显示字符集 ===

显示博客正在使用的字符集(如: utf-8)。

 &lt;p&gt;Character set: <?php bloginfo('charset'); ?> &lt;/p&gt;

=== 显示博客描述 ===

Displays Tagline for your blog as set in the Administration panel under '''General Options'''.

 &lt;p&gt;<?php bloginfo('description'); ?> &lt;/p&gt;

== 备注 ==

* Uses: [[Function_Reference/get_bloginfo|get_bloginfo()]]

== Change Log ==

* Since: 0.71

== 源文件位置 ==

标签 bloginfo()位于 {{Trac|wp-includes/general-template.php}}.

== 相关 ==
* [[Function_Reference/get_bloginfo|<tt>get_bloginfo()</tt>]]

=== 目录的URL标记 ===
{{Directory URL Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]