{{Languages|
{{en|Template Tags/bloginfo_rss}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/bloginfo_rss}}
{{ru|Теги шаблонов/bloginfo_rss}}
}}

== Description ==

Displays information about your blog, mostly gathered from the information you supply in [[Administration Panels#Users_-_Your_Blogging_Family|Users]] > [[Administration Panels#Your Profile|Your Profile]] and '''General Options''' from the WordPress [[Administration Panels]]. This function is identical to [[Template_Tags/bloginfo | bloginfo()]] except it strips any markup from the output for use in WordPress' [[Glossary#Feed|syndication feeds]].

== Usage ==

%%% <?php bloginfo_rss('show'); ?> %%%

== Example ==

=== Show Blog Title and Link ===

Displays blog name and url in title and link tags of RSS feed.

 &lt;title&gt;<?php bloginfo_rss('name'); ?>&lt;/title&gt;
 &lt;link&gt;<?php bloginfo_rss('url') ?>&lt;/link&gt;

== Parameters ==

; show : (''string'') Informational detail about your blog. Valid values:
:* <tt>'name'</tt> - Weblog title; set in General Options. (Default)
:* <tt>'description'</tt> - Tagline for your blog; set in General Options.
:* <tt>'url'</tt> - [[Glossary#URI and URL|URL]] for your blog's web site address.
:* <tt>'rdf_url'</tt> - URL for [[Glossary#RDF|RDF]]/RSS 1.0 feed.
:* <tt>'rss_url'</tt> - URL for [[Glossary#RSS|RSS]] 0.92 feed.
:* <tt>'rss2_url'</tt> - URL for RSS 2.0 feed.
:* <tt>'atom_url'</tt> - URL for [[Glossary#Atom|Atom]] feed.
:* <tt>'comments_rss2_url'</tt> - URL for comments RSS 2.0 feed.
:* <tt>'pingback_url'</tt> - URL for [[Glossary#PingBack|Pingback]] (XML-RPC file).
:* <tt>'admin_email'</tt> - Administrator's email address; set in General Options.
:* <tt>'charset'</tt> - Character encoding for your blog; set in Reading Options.
:* <tt>'version'</tt> - Version of WordPress your blog uses.

: '''The following work in WordPress version 1.5 or after:'''
:* <tt>'html_type'</tt> - "Content-type" for your blog.
:* <tt>'wpurl'</tt> - URL for WordPress installation.
:* <tt>'template_url'</tt> - URL for template in use.
:* <tt>'template_directory'</tt> -  URL for template's directory.
:* <tt>'stylesheet_url'</tt> - URL for primary [[Glossary#CSS|CSS]] file.
:* <tt>'stylesheet_directory'</tt> - URL for stylesheet directory.

== Related ==

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]
[[Category:Feeds]]