{{Languages|
{{en|Template Tags/the_content_rss}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/the_content_rss}}
}}
{{Deprecated}}

== Description ==

Displays the content of the current post formatted for [[Glossary#RSS|RSS]]. This tag must be within [[The_Loop]].

This tag will display a "teaser" link to read more of a post, when on non-single/non-[[Glossary#Permalink|permalink]] post pages and the <tt>&lt;!--more--&gt;</tt> Quicktag is used.

== Replace with ==
*[[Template_Tags/the_content_feed]]

== Usage ==

%%% <?php the_content_rss('more_link_text', strip_teaser,
                      'more_file', cut, encode_html); ?> %%%

== Examples ==

=== Default Usage ===

Displays the content in RSS format using defaults.

  <?php the_content_rss(); ?>

=== Hides Teaser Link and Limits Content ===

Displays the content in RSS format, hides the teaser link and cuts the content after 50 words.

  <?php the_content_rss(&#39;&#39;, TRUE, &#39;&#39;, 50); ?>

== Parameters ==

; more_link_text : (''string'') Link text to display for the "more" link. Defaults to <tt>'(more...)'</tt>.
; strip_teaser : (''boolean'') Should the text before the "more" link be hidden (<tt>TRUE</tt>) or displayed (<tt>FALSE</tt>). Defaults to <tt>FALSE</tt>.
; more_file : (''string'') File which the "more" link points to. Defaults to the current file.
; cut : (''integer'') Number of words displayed before ending content. Default is <tt>0</tt> (display all).
; encode_html : (''integer'') Defines html tag filtering and special character (e.g. '&') encoding. Options are:
:* <tt>0</tt> - (Default) Parses out links for numbered "url footnotes".
:* <tt>1</tt> - Filters through the [[Glossary#PHP|PHP]] function htmlspecialchars(), but also sets cut to <tt>0</tt>, so is not recommended when using the cut parameter.
:* <tt>2</tt> - Strips html tags, and replaces '&' with [[Glossary#HTML|HTML]] entity equivalent (&amp;amp;). This is the default when using the cut parameter.

== Changelog ==
* Since: 0.71
* Deprecated: 2.9.0

== Related ==

{{Tag Post Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]
[[Category:Feeds]]