{{Languages|
{{en|Template Tags/the_excerpt_rss}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/the_excerpt_rss}}
}}

== Description ==

Displays the excerpt of the current post formatted for [[Glossary#RSS|RSS]].If you do not provide an explicit excerpt to a post (in the post editor's optional excerpt field), the first 55 words of the post's content are used. This tag must be within [[The_Loop]].

== Usage ==

%%% <?php the_excerpt_rss(); ?> %%%

== Parameters ==

This tag has no parameters.

'''Note:''' See [[#v1.2 Parameters|Parameters for v1.2]] for arguments available in that version.

== Example ==

Displays the post's excerpt, or the first 120 words of the post's content when no excerpt exists, formatted for RSS syndication.

 <description><?php the_excerpt_rss(); ?></description> 

== Version 1.2 ==

WordPress version 1.5 does not support parameters for this tag. The following information is retained for the benefit of 1.2 users.

=== v1.2 Usage ===

%%% <?php the_excerpt_rss( $cut, $encode_html ); ?> %%%

=== v1.2 Parameters ===

; $cut : (''integer'') Number of words to display before ending the excerpt. Can be any numeric value up to the default.
; $encode_html : (''integer'') Defines html tag filtering and special character (e.g. '&') encoding. Options are:
:* <tt>0</tt> - (Default) Parses out links for numbered "url footnotes".
:* <tt>1</tt> - Filters through the [[Glossary#PHP|PHP]] function htmlspecialchars(), but also sets cut to <tt>0</tt>, so is not recommended when using the cut parameter.
:* <tt>2</tt> - Strips html tags, and replaces '&' with [[Glossary#HTML|HTML]] entity equivalent (&amp;amp;). This is the default when using the cut parameter.

== Related ==

{{Tag Post Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]
[[Category:Feeds]]