[[Category:Vietnamese Codex]]{{Nháp}} 

== Mô tả ==

Hiển thị nội dung bài viết hiện tại. Thẻ này phải nằm trong [[Vòng_lặp]].

Nếu thẻ <tt>&lt;!--more--&gt;</tt> được sử dụng trong một bài viết, thẻ the_content() sẽ chỉ hiển thị phần nội dung phía trên của <tt>&lt;!--more--&gt;</tt>. Thẻ <tt>the_content()</tt> đi kèm với tham số cho phép định dạng nội dung thẻ <tt>&lt;!--more--&gt;</tt>, hay liên kết để "đọc tiếp" phần còn lại của bài viết.

:'''Chú ý về thẻ <tt>&lt;!--more--&gt;</tt>''' :
:* "Trước" từ "more" trong cụm <tt>&lt;!--more--&gt;</tt> không có khoảng trắng. Nói cách khác, <tt>&lt;!-- more --&gt;</tt> sẽ "không" hoạt động!
:* ''Thẻ <tt>&lt;!--more--&gt;</tt> sẽ không hoạt động, và bị lờ đi trong những [[Templates]] như '''single.php''', nơi hiển thị đúng một bài viết.''
:* Đọc [[Customizing the Read More]] để biết thêm chi tiết.

== Cách sử dụng ==

%%%<?php the_content ( 'more_link_text', strip_teaser, 'more_file');?>%%%

''Ngoài ra'', bạn có thể sử dụng hàm [[Function Reference/get_the_content|get_the_content]] để lấy nội dung giá trị thay vì hiển thị nó trực tiếp. Ví dụ:

%%%<?php $content = get_the_content(); ?>%%%

'''Please note!''' [[Function Reference/get_the_content|get_the_content]] will not have the following done to it and you are advised to add them until the core has been updated:

%%%<?php
$content = apply_filters('the_content', $content);
$content = str_replace(']]>', ']]&gt;', $content);
?>%%%

== Ví dụ ==

=== Designating the "More" Text ===

Displays the content of the post and uses "Read more..." for the more link text when the <tt>&lt;!--more--&gt;</tt> Quicktag is used.

 <?php the_content('Read more...'); ?>

=== Include Title in "More" ===

Similar to the above example, but thanks to [[Template Tags/the title|the_title()]] tag and the ''display'' parameter, it can show "Continue reading ''ACTUAL POST TITLE''" when the <tt>&lt;!--more--&gt;</tt> Quicktag is used.

 <?php the_content("Continue reading " . the_title(&#39;&#39;, &#39;&#39;, false)); ?>

=== Overriding Archive/Single Page Behavior ===

If the_content() isn't working as you desire (displaying the entire story when you only want the content above the <tt>&lt;!--more--&gt;</tt> Quicktag, for example) you can override the behavior with global $more.

 <?php 
 // Declare global $more, before the loop.
 global $more;
 ?>

 <?php
 // Display content above the more tag
 $more = 0;
 the_content("More...");
 ?>

Alternatively, if you need to display all of the content:

 <?php 
 // Declare global $more, before the loop.
 global $more;
 ?>

 <?php
 // Display all content, including text below more
 $more = 1;
 the_content();
 ?>

note: in my case I had to set  $more=0; INSIDE the loop for it to work.

== Parameters ==

; more_link_text : (''string'') The link text to display for the "more" link. Defaults to <tt>'(more...)'</tt>.
; strip_teaser : (''boolean'') Should the text before the "more" link be hidden (<tt>TRUE</tt>) or displayed (<tt>FALSE</tt>). Defaults to <tt>FALSE</tt>.
; more_file : (''string'') File the "more" link points to. Defaults to the current file. (V2.0: Currently the 'more_file' parameter doesn't work).

== Related ==

{{Tag Post Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}