{{Languages|
{{en|Template Tags/wp_title}}
{{ja|テンプレートタグ/wp_title}}
{{zh-cn|中文(简体)/wp_title}}
{{ru|Теги шаблонов/wp title}}
}}

{{ru:Stub}}

== Описание ==

Выводит или возвращает заголовок страницы. Разделитель можно изменять.А начиная с [[Version 2.5]] можно также указывать расположение разделителя - до или после названия страницы.

Этот Тег шаблона можно использовать повсеместно, как за пределами [[Цикл_WordPress]], так и внутри него. Обычно его используют для указания заголовка страницы в теге <tt>&lt;title&gt;</tt> в <tt>&lt;head&gt;</tt> части страницы.

Текст заголовка зависит от страницы, на которой вызывается:

; одна запись или [[Страницы|страница]]: заголовок записи или страницы
; архив записей за определённое время: дата (например, "2006", "Январь 2006")
; рубрика: название рубрики
; страница записей автора: отображаемое имя автора

== Использование ==

%%% <?php wp_title( $sep, $echo, $seplocation ); ?> %%%

== Параметры ==

{{Parameter|$sep|string|Текст, который будет отображаться до или после заголовка (разделитель).
|По умолчанию:|(&raquo;)}}

{{Parameter|$echo|boolean|Выводит заголовок (True) или возвращает значение (False) при вызове функции.|необязательный|True}}
:*<tt>1</tt> (True) - default 
:*<tt>0</tt> (False)

{{Parameter|$seplocation|string|Введенный с версии 2.5, этот параметр определяет, где будет выводиться строка переданная в параметре '''sep''', до или после заголовка.  Для любого значения кроме 'right', значение '''sep''' будет выводиться перед заголовком (т.е. слева от заголовка).  Если передано значение 'right', то строка '''sep''' будет выведена после заголовка.|необязательный}}

== Примеры ==

=== По умолчанию ===

Displays the blog name (using [[Template Tags/bloginfo|<tt>bloginfo()</tt>]]) and the post title using defaults when accessing a single post page.  If the blog name is "My WordPress Blog", and the title of the post is "Hello world!", then the example below will show the title as '''My WordPress Blog  &raquo; Hello world!
<pre> <title><?php bloginfo('name'); ?> <?php wp_title(); ?></title></pre>

=== Turning Off &raquo; ===

If you don't want it to automatically display the &raquo; before the page title, just call the function as below:

<pre> <title><?php bloginfo('name'); ?> <?php wp_title("",true); ?></title></pre>

=== Covering Homepage ===

If you are using a custom homepage with custom loops and stuff, you will have an empty wp_title. Here goes a neat hack to add the description/tegline at the wp_title place on homepage:

<pre><title><?php bloginfo('name'); ?> | <?php is_home() ? bloginfo('description') : wp_title(''); ?></title></pre>

=== Using Separator ===

Displays blog name (using [[Template Tags/bloginfo|<tt>bloginfo()</tt>]]) along with post title in the document's title tag, using (pipe) "|" as the separator. This results in (when on a single post page) '''My WordPress Site | Hello world!'''.

<pre> <title><?php bloginfo('name'); ?><?php wp_title('|'); ?></title></pre>

This example would do the same thing:
<pre> <title><?php bloginfo('name'); ?><?php wp_title('|',true,''); ?></title></pre>

=== Additional Separators ===
Most common are so called pipes ('|') however there are few other that could be used.

'''Hyphens'''
<pre> <title><?php bloginfo('name'); ?><?php wp_title('-'); ?></title></pre>

'''Commas'''
<pre> <title><?php bloginfo('name'); ?><?php wp_title(','); ?></title></pre>

'''Spaces''' 
<pre> <title><?php bloginfo('name'); ?><?php wp_title(' '); ?></title></pre>

=== Not Recommended Separators ===
When using meta titles site owners need to send a clear message to their users as well as Search Engines. Here are two examples of what websites should avoid.

'''Double Hyphens'''
<pre> <title><?php bloginfo('name'); ?><?php wp_title('--'); ?></title></pre>

'''Underscores''' 
<pre> <title><?php bloginfo('name'); ?><?php wp_title('_'); ?></title></pre>

Underscores will confuse both users and search engines because the title becomes one word instead of several separated words.

Example when using underscores:

'''My_WordPress_Site''' instead of '''My WordPress Site'''.

=== Separator with Blog Name and Title Reversed ===

'''For Wordpress 2.5 and newer'''
<pre><title>
 <?php wp_title('|',true,'right'); ?>
 <?php bloginfo('name'); ?>
 </title></pre>

'''For previous versions'''

This lets you reverse page title and blog name in the title tag from example above ('''Hello world!--My WordPress Blog''') by removing the separator (using <tt>wp_title(' ')</tt>, then tests if there is a post title (using <tt>if(wp_title(' ', false))</tt>), and displays the separator between it and <tt>bloginfo()</tt> if it does.

<pre><title>
 <?php wp_title(' '); ?>
 <?php if(wp_title(' ', false)) { echo '|'; } ?> 
 <?php bloginfo('name'); ?>
 </title></pre>

== Схожее ==

{{Tag Post Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Template Tags]]
[[Category:Russian Codex]]
[[Category:Теги шаблонов]]