== Description ==
Returns general blog information stored in the [[Database_Description#Table:_wp_blogs|wp_blogs]] table.

== Parameters ==
{{Parameter|$fields|integer|A blog ID, a blog name, or an array of fields to query against.}}
{{Parameter|$getall|boolean|Flag indicating if all available data or just a subset of data should be returned (see return values, below).|optional|true}}

== Return Values ==
; <tt>(object)</tt> : Object containing the following public variables:

:; blog_id : <tt>(integer)</tt> ID of the blog queried.
:; site_id : <tt>(integer)</tt> ID of the site this blog belongs to (as ''wp_site'').
:; domain : <tt>(string)</tt> Domain used to access this blog.
:; path : <tt>(string)</tt> Path used to access this site.
:; registered : <tt>(string)</tt> Date and time this blog was registered.
:; last_updated : <tt>(string)</tt> Date and time this blog was last updated.
:; public : <tt>(integer)</tt> Flag indicating if this blog is public or not.
:; archived : <tt>(integer)</tt> Flag indicating if this blog is archived or not.
:; mature : <tt>(integer)</tt> Flag indicating if this blog has been marked as for a mature audience.
:; spam : <tt>(integer)</tt> Flag indicating if this blog has been marked as spam.
:; deleted : <tt>(integer)</tt> Flag indicating if this blog has been marked as deleted.
:; lang_id : <tt>(integer)</tt> ID of the language this blog is written in.
:; blogname : <tt>(string)</tt> ''Available only with $getall flag set to true.'' The name of this blog.
:; siteurl : <tt>(string)</tt> ''Available only with $getall flag set to true.'' The URL of the site this blog belongs to.
:; post_count : <tt>(integer)</tt> ''Available only with $getall flag set to true.'' The number of posts in this blog.

== Usage ==
%%%<?php get_blog_details( $fields, $getall ); ?>%%%

== Examples ==
%%%<?php
  $blog_details = get_blog_details(1);
  echo 'Blog '.$blog_details->blog_id.' is called '.$blog_details->blogname.'.';
?>%%%

get_blog_details(1); returns an object:

    [blog_id]      =&gt; 1
    [site_id]      =&gt; 1
    [domain]       =&gt; foo-multi-site.com
    [path]         =&gt; /site-path/
    [registered]   =&gt; 2014-07-31 14:51:09
    [last_updated] =&gt; 2014-07-31 15:51:56
    [public]       =&gt; 1
    [archived]     =&gt; 0
    [mature]       =&gt; 0
    [spam]         =&gt; 0
    [deleted]      =&gt; 0
    [lang_id]      =&gt; 0
    [blogname]     =&gt; Site Name
    [siteurl]      =&gt; http://foo-multi-site.com/this-site
    [post_count]   =&gt;

== Notes ==
To return an object containing all items, use the following syntax:
%%%<?php get_blog_details( $blogId ); ?>%%%

Alternatively, to return a specific variable from the above items, you can use the following:
%%%<?php get_blog_details( $blogId )->path; ?>%%%

== Related ==

{{Multisite Blog Tags}}

{{Tag Footer}}

[[Category:Functions]]
[[Category:WPMU]]
[[Category:WPMU Functions]]