{{merge-into|[[Function_Reference/get_blog_option]]}}

== Description ==

Returns data relating to a specific blog.

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$blog_id|integer|ID of blog queried.}}
{{Parameter|$setting|string|Name of setting to fetch.}}
{{Parameter|$default|integer|Deprecated.|optional|false}}

=== Options ===
Any settings in the wp_(blog_id)_options table can be fetched using this function including:
:; siteurl : Full URL of the blog queried (eg. http://www.example.com/blog).
:; blogname : Name of the blog queried.
:; blogdescription : Description of the blog queried.
:; wp_#_user_roles : Roles available in this blog (where # is the ID of the blog being queried).
:; users_can_register : Flag indicating if users can register on the queried blog.
:; admin_email : Email address of the admin user of the blog queried.
:; start_of_week : Day of the week set as the week start for the blog queried.
:; use_balanceTags : Flag indicating if the queried blog uses balanced tags.
:; use_smilies : Flag indicating if the queried blog converts text smilies to images.
:; require_name_email : Flag indicating if the queried blog requires names and emails in posted comments.
:; comments_notify : Flag indicating if the queried blog notifies the admin user when a new comment is posted.
:; posts_per_rss : Number of posts carried in the queried blog's RSS feed.
:; rss_excerpt_length : Length of excerpt carried in the queried blog's RSS feed.
:; rss_use_excerpt : Flag indicating if the queried blog's RSS feed carries a post's excerpt.
:; mailserver_url : URL of mail server used when sending email from the queried blog.
:; mailserver_login : Username used with the above mail server.
:; mailserver_pass : Password used with the above username and mail server.
:; mailserver_port : Port used with the above mail server.
:; default_category : ID of category in which blog posts are published by default.
:; default_comment_status : Status comments are set to when posted by default.
:; default_ping_status : Ping status set by default when new blog posts are published.
:; default_pingback_flag : Flag indicating the default status of pingbacks when new blog posts are published.
:; default_post_edit_rows : Default size of the post edit box.
:; posts_per_page : Number of posts displayed per page on the bog queried.
:; what_to_show : [unknown]
:; date_format : Format in which dates are disaplyed on the blog queried.
:; time_format : Format in which times are displayed on the blog queried.
:; links_updated_date_format : [unknown]
:; links_recently_updated_append : [unknown]

== Return Values ==
; <tt>(mixed)</tt> : The value of the setting requested.

== Usage ==
%%%<?php get_blog_option($blog_id, $setting, $default); ?>%%%

== Examples ==

%%%<?php
$blog_id = 1;
echo 'Blog '.$blog_id.' is called '.get_blog_option( $blog_id, 'blogname' );
?>%%%

== Notes ==

Pulls the provided information from the wp_#_options table.

----

[[Category:WPMU]]
[[Category:WPMU Functions]]