{{Deprecated|new_function=wp_get_sites|version=3.0}}

See [[#Change_Log|the change log]] for more info.

== Description ==
Returns an array of arrays containing information about each public blog hosted on this WPMU install. Only blogs marked as public and flagged as safe (mature flag off) are returned. Orders the blog list by registered date in descending order (newest to oldest).

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$start|integer|The first blog to return in the array.|optional|0}}
{{Parameter|$num|integer|The number of blogs to return in the array (thus the size of the array).  Setting this to ''string'' 'all' returns all blogs from <tt>$start</tt>.|optional|10}}
{{Parameter|$deprecated|integer|Deprecated.|optional|[blank string]}}

== Return Values ==
; <tt>(array)</tt> : Returns an array of arrays each representing a blog hosted on this WPMU install.  Details are represented in the following format:

:; blog_id : <tt>(integer)</tt>ID of blog detailed.
:; domain : <tt>(string)</tt> Domain used to access this blog.
:; path : <tt>(string)</tt> Path used to access this blog.
:; postcount : <tt>(integer)</tt> The number of posts in this blog.

== Usage ==
%%%<?php get_blog_list($start, $num, $deprecated); ?>%%%

== Examples ==
%%%<?php
$blog_list = get_blog_list( 0, 'all' );
foreach ($blog_list AS $blog) {
	echo 'Blog '.$blog['blog_id'].': '.$blog['domain'].$blog['path'].'<br />';
}
?>%%%

== Notes ==
* Orders the blog list by registered date in descending order (newest to oldest). As such, using start and end may slice blogs other than than those desired. An improvement to this would be to sort by blog_id, blogname or even allowing the developer to specify their own order (for example: <tt>get_blog_list( 0, 10, true, blogname )</tt>.
* This function is still working, but use it at your own risk, so that the site will not be crashed.

== Change Log ==

* Since: MU
* Deprecated: [[Version 3.0|3.0.0]]. For performance reasons, this function is not recommended. See [https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/13773 ticket 13773].
* As of [[Version_3.7|version 3.7]] the function [[Function_Reference/wp_get_sites|wp_get_sites()]] offers a viable replacement.

== Source File ==

<tt>get_blog_list()</tt> is located in {{Trac|wp-includes/ms-deprecated.php}}. Before 3.0.0, it was located in {{Trac|wp-includes/ms-blogs.php}}.

----

[[Category:WPMU]]
[[Category:WPMU Functions]]