{{Deprecated}}
== Description ==

Returns information relating to the user specified by the given username.

== Replace With ==

* [[Function_Reference/get_user_by|get_user_by()]]

== Parameters ==

{{Parameter|$username|string|Username of the user to be queried.}}

== Return Values ==
; <tt>(object)</tt> : Returns an object representing the the user in question.  Details are represented in the following public variables:.

:; ID : <tt>(integer)</tt> ID of the user in question.
:; user_login : <tt>(string)</tt> Username (login) of the account in question.
:; user_pass : <tt>(string)</tt> Password hash for the account in question.
:; user_nicename : <tt>(string)</tt> Nickname set for the account in question.
:; user_email : <tt>(string)</tt> Email address for the account in question (listed in Contact Info -> E-Mail).
:; user_url : <tt>(string)</tt> Website for the account in question (listed in Contact Info -> Website).
:; user_registered : <tt>(string)</tt> Date and time the account in question was registered.
:; user_activation_key : <tt>(string)</tt> Key used to activate the account in question.
:; user_status : <tt>(integer)</tt> Current status of the account in question.
:; display_name : <tt>(string)</tt> Option chosen to be displayed for the account in question.
:; span : <tt>(integer)</tt> Flag indicating if this account is marked as spam.
:; deleted : <tt>(integer)</tt> Flag indicating if this account has been marked as deleted.

== Usage ==

%%%<?php get_user_details( 'admin' ); ?>%%%
%%%<?php get_user_details( 'admin' )->user_nicename; ?>%%%

== Examples ==

%%%<?php
$user_name = 'admin';
$user = get_user_details( $user_name );
echo 'User '.$user_name.' has ID '.$user->ID;
?>%%%

%%%<?php
$user_name = 'admin';
echo 'User '.$user_name.' has ID '.get_user_details( $user_name )->ID;
?>%%%

== Change Log ==

* Since: MU
* Deprecated: [[Version 3.0|3.0.0]]
* Replace By: [[Function_Reference/get_user_by|get_user_by()]]

----

[[Category:WPMU]]
[[Category:WPMU Functions]]